PARIS (AP) — Novak Djokovic will end the year at No. 1 for a record seventh time after rallying to beat Hubert Hurkacz 3-6, 6-0, 7-6 (5) in the Paris Masters semifinals on Saturday. Djokovic, who also stays on course for a record-extending sixth Paris Masters title, moved one ahead of American Pete Sampras, who secured his six top year-end finishes from 1993-98.“That was the goal this week. I’m very proud to finish the season as No. 1,” Djokovic said. “It’s a dream, honestly, because Sampras was such an idol for me when I was young. He motivated me to pick up the racket and try this sport.”Djokovic also finished the year top in 2011-12, 2014-15, 2018 and 2020.Djokovic eclipsed Roger Federer’s all-time mark of 310 weeks at No. 1 on March 8 and will finish 2021 having held the top ranking for 348 weeks.Another win on Sunday will give Djokovic a record 37th Masters title to move one clear of fellow 20-time Grand Slam winner Rafael Nadal.The top-ranked Serb has also reached a record-extending seventh final here, where he could meet Russian Daniil Medvedev after losing to him in the U.S. Open final two months ago. Djokovic had not played since.The second-seeded Medvedev played No. 4 Alexander Zverev — the Olympic champion — later Saturday.Djokovic was in his 71st Masters semifinal and Hurkacz just his second.But Hurkacz forged the first break point of the match in the eighth game and took it with a backhand volley at the net for 5-3.Djokovic had a chance to break back with Hurkacz 30-40 down in the next game, but the Serb made two sloppy unforced errors and Hurkacz took the first set on his second set point with a strong first serve that Djokovic returned long.Djokovic hit back in an imperious second set and took control of the decider with a strong service game to move 4-1 up.But Djokovic’s double-fault in the seventh game gave Hurkacz two break points. Djokovic sarcastically applauded the crowd after some of them had cheered his double-fault. The Parisian crowd had also loudly cheered errors and double-faults from players who were up against Frenchman Hugo Gaston on Thursday and Friday.Djokovic was much more comfortable holding for a 5-4 lead, and sat in a meditative pose during the changeover.Serving to stay in the match, Hurkacz was at deuce when Djokovic edged a 25-shot rally to forge a first match point.He saved it on second serve when Djokovic’s backhand landed just wide. He then held with an ace for 5-5.The tiebreaker was close at 5-5 when Hurkacz’s loose forehand into the net gave Djokovic a second match point and he clinched victory when Hurkacz’s sliced backhand at full stretch landed just wide.Djokovic beat his chest three times and let out a roar as he celebrated his victory, then applauded his opponent off court.“What a match, a lot of intensity,” Djokovic said. “It was very close.”Hurkacz broke into the Top 10 for the first time last month and has qualified for the eight-man season-ending ATP Finals, which start on Nov. 14 in Turin.Djokovic will also be looking for a record-equaling sixth ATP Finals title to tie with Federer.___More AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports