Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Donor-advised funds-Omicron-Hurricane season-------STORIES:This Hanukkah, learn about the holiday’s forgotten heroes: WomenADVERTISEMENTRELIGION The Jewish festival of Hanukkah, which in 2021 began on Nov. 28, focuses on the story of the Maccabees. But women are also heroes in stories about that era, including Judith and Hannah. 931 words. By Alan Avery-Peck, College of the Holy CrossWho’s in? Who’s out? The ethics of COVID-19 travel rulesCOMMENTARY Should countries require COVID-19 vaccination for entry while vaccines remain globally scarce? 1195 words. By Nancy S. Jecker, University of Washington and Caesar Atuire, University of GhanaQuitting your job or thinking about joining the ‘great resignation’? Here’s what an employment lawyer advisesCOMMENTARY A record number of Americans are quitting their jobs. But before you opt to join them, you should consider the risks and costs. 965 words. By Elizabeth C. Tippett, University of OregonWhat the public doesn’t get: Anti-CRT lawmakers are passing pro-CRT lawsCOMMENTARY Critical race theory is often distorted by GOP politicians and pundits to stir up its Trump base. But CRT is needed more, not less, argues one legal scholar, to explain American racial disparities. 934 words. By Jonathan Feingold, Boston UniversityWill omicron – the new coronavirus variant of concern – be more contagious than delta? A virus expert explains what researchers know and what they don’tADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY It’s too early to say whether the newly identified omicron variant is going to overtake delta. But particular mutations in the new strain have researchers deeply concerned. 1014 words. By Suresh V. Kuchipudi, Penn StateGiving Tuesday: Charitable gifts from donor-advised funds favor education and religionCOMMENTARY Little comprehensive research about what the charitable accounts, known as DAFs, are supporting has been conducted until now. 509 words. By Anna Pruitt, IUPUI and Jon Bergdoll, IUPUIWhen ‘hunker down’ isn’t an option: The 2021 Atlantic hurricane season showed how low-income communities face the highest risksCOMMENTARY The most vulnerable communities are being pushed deeper into poverty with each climate-related disaster. Part of the problem is that government aid helps the wealthiest people most. 1178 words. By Marina Lazetic, Tufts University and Karen Jacobsen, Tufts UniversityWhy we’re using filmmaking to encourage vaccination by Black and Latino AngelenosCOMMENTARY Two film crews comprised of Latino and Black cinematic arts graduate students made short films to counter vaccine fears in both communities. 745 words. By Jeremy Kagan, University of Southern California; Lourdes Baezconde-Garbanati, University of Southern California, and Sheila Murphy, USC Annenberg School for Communication and JournalismReverse vaccination technique in mice suggests new way to teach the immune system not to attack lifesaving treatmentsSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  A recent lab-stage study finds that preexposure to the proteins used to treat conditions like hemophilia A could help train the immune system to tolerate rather than attack therapies. 526 words. By Sathy Balu-Iyer, University at BuffaloUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.