ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Adam Henrique had a goal and an assist, Troy Terry extended his points streak to 10 games and the Anaheim Ducks sent the Arizona Coyotes to their 11th straight loss to start the season with a 3-1 win Friday night.Sonny Milano and Sam Carrick also scored in the third straight victory for the Ducks, who have earned a point in six of their last seven games.Anthony Stolarz made 28 saves for Anaheim before missing out on his fourth career shutout on Shayne Gostisbehere’s goal with 7.8 seconds to play. He still earned his first win of the season for Anaheim, which had a six-game winless skid before outscoring its last three opponents by a combined 11-3 at home. Rookie Karel Vejmelka stopped 28 shots while Arizona fell to 0-10-1. The Coyotes are the league’s remaining winless team, and have tied the 2017-18 Coyotes for the franchise’s longest losing streak to start the season.ADVERTISEMENTThe Coyotes’ streak also matches three other teams for the second-longest winless skid to start a season in NHL history, according to the league’s record books. Only the 1943-44 New York Rangers have been worse — opening 0-11-0 and eventually going 0-14-1 before their first win.OILERS 6, RANGERS 5 EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Edmonton set a franchise record when Leon Draisaitl scored the overtime winner to push the team past New York. The Oilers have won nine of their first 10 games for the first time in team history. Jesse Puljujarvi scored twice for Edmonton, which also got goals from Zach Hyman, Tyson Barrie and Connor McDavid.Edmonton goalie Mikko Koskinen stopped 20 of 25 shot in the victory.It was the Rangers’ second straight loss. Mika Zibanejad scored twice for them, and Filip Chytil, Kevin Rooney and Chris Kreider also had goals. Alexandar Georgiev got the nod ahead of usual starter Igor Shesterkin, and had 33 saves. KINGS 3, DEVILS 2LOS ANGELES (AP) — Alex Iafallo quickly scored in overtime against New Jersey to give Los Angeles its fourth straight win. The Kings’ Arthur Kaliyev scored a power-play goal, Adrian Kempe also had a goal and Calvin Petersen made 21 saves.Pavel Zacha tied it up with 24 seconds remaining in the third period to salvage a point for the Devils, who have lost three straight. Jesper Bratt had a goal, and Mackenzie Blackwood made 26 saves in his season debut after undergoing surgery on his heel in June.After Zacha beat Petersen over his left shoulder with a wrist shot from the right circle, the Kings recovered to win it on a one-timer in the slot by Iafallo, who has four goals and three assists during a five-game point streak.PREDATORS 3, CANUCKS 2VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — A pair of power-play goals pushed Nashville over Vancouver. Roman Josi and Philip Tomasino both scored for the Preds on the man advantage, and Matt Duchene added an even-strength tally. Mikael Granlund contributed a pair of assists.Brock Boeser and Nils Hoglander replied for the Canucks. Vancouver got another strong performance from netminder Thatcher Demko, who stopped 25 shots.Juuse Saros registered 26 saves for Nashville and collected his fifth win of the year.Vancouver’s special teams floundered Friday, going scoreless on five power-play chances and giving up goals on 2 of 3 penalties.JETS 5, BLACKHAWKS 1WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Kyle Connor and Nikolaj Ehlers each had a goal and had an assist in Winnipeg’s win over Chicago. Paul Stastny, Neal Pionk and Dominic Toninato also scored in Winnipeg’s fourth straight home win. Andrew Copp assisted on three goals for the Jets, who have posted their best start to a regular season (6-2-2) in the team’s modern era. Eric Comrie stopped 16 shots.MacKenzie Entwistle scored short-handed in the third period for Chicago, and Marc-Andre Fleury made 28 saves. The Blackhawks have lost 11 of their first 12 games.