NFLNEW YORK (AP) — Green Bay Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers said he sought alternative treatments instead of the NFL-endorsed COVID-19 vaccinations because he is allergic to an ingredient in two of the FDA-approved shots.Speaking on SiriusXM’s “Pat McAfee Show,” Rodgers said: “I’m not an anti-vax, flat-earther. I have an allergy to an ingredient that’s in the mRNA vaccines. I found a long-term immunization protocol to protect myself and I’m very proud of the research that went into that.”Rodgers, who turns 38 on Dec. 2, did not say what ingredient he was allergic to, or how he knows he is allergic.Rodgers, who has been tested daily as part of NFL protocols for the unvaccinated, found out he contracted COVID-19 on Wednesday. The reigning NFL MVP said he didn’t feel well on Thursday but was much better on Friday.Rodgers can’t rejoin the Packers for 10 days, missing Sunday’s game at Kansas City. He must have a negative test to return to the team on Nov. 13.ADVERTISEMENTCLEVELAND (AP) — Odell Beckham’s final target with the Browns was a pass thrown to him late, high and out of his reach.He tried catching it with one hand. Another incompletion, and like OBJ’s time with Cleveland, a failure.Out of patience with Beckham’s antics and attitude, the Browns said they’re releasing the polarizing star wide receiver, whose arrival 2 1/2 years ago triggered a celebration and spawned wild expectations never met.Beckham’s unceremonious exit — still not official — came on his 29th birthday and days after his father shared an 11-minute video on social media highlighting plays on which Browns quarterback Baker Mayfield didn’t throw him the ball.Beckham was excused from two days of practice while his agents tried to work out an amicable parting with general manager Andrew Berry as the Browns (4-4) were preparing to play a critical game on Sunday in Cincinnati.Beckham wanted out of Cleveland almost from the time he was acquired in a 2019 blockbuster trade from the New York Giants. He asked to be traded several times, and now has his wish. Sort of.BASEBALLATLANTA (AP) — The Atlanta Braves were cheered by hundreds of thousands of fans in a two-stage parade celebrating the team’s first World Series championship since 1995.Some area schools closed, and students seized the opportunity to attend the event. The parade started in downtown Atlanta, near the Braves’ former home at Turner Field. The route took the busses, floats and pickup trucks past a memorial to late Hall of Famer Hank Aaron at the site of old Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium. The procession then headed to Peachtree Street, where fans packed sidewalks several rows deep.Atlanta police estimated 300,000 to 400,000 fans attended the downtown portion of the parade.ADVERTISEMENTThe fan turnout was similarly strong for the final mile of the parade, which ended at the Braves’ current Truist Park in suburban Cobb County. The stadium was filled. Thousands more fans packed the mixed-entertainment complex outside the stadium.HOUSTON (AP) — Dusty Baker will return as manager of the Houston Astros for a third season after agreeing to a one-year contract with the AL champions.Baker took over from AJ Hinch, who was suspended by MLB for his role in the team’s sign stealing and then fired. The Astros lost to Tampa Bay in the 2020 AL Championship Series and to Atlanta in this year’s six-game World Series.The 72-year-old Baker has never won a World Series title as a manager. He has 1,987 regular-season wins as a manager.Baker said he has enjoyed his time in Houston, even adapting to the team’s focus on analytics. HORSE RACINGDEL MAR, Calif. (AP) — Corniche has a bright future as winner of the Breeders’ Cup Juvenile. Whether it includes the Kentucky Derby next year remains to be seen.The 2-year-old colt won the $2 million race by 1 3/4 lengths at Del Mar, assuming the mantle as the early favorite for the Derby at Churchill Downs, where his trainer, Bob Baffert, has been banned.Sent off as the 7-5 favorite, Corniche sprinted to the lead and stayed there under 56-year-old jockey Mike Smith. The 2-year-old bay colt ran 1 1/16 miles in 1:42.50.Baffert was allowed to enter horses in the season-ending world championships, but the event’s money-leading trainer had to meet certain conditions, including stricter out-of-competition testing of his horses and greater security at his barn. He agreed to the extra scrutiny and was required to pay for it out of his own pocket.Baffert was banned by Churchill Downs for the 2022 and 2023 Kentucky Derbies after Medina Spirit finished first this year and then failed a post-race drug test. The medication involved is allowed in Kentucky, but not on race day. Baffert’s horses have had five failed drug tests in the last year. The Kentucky Horse Racing Commission has yet to make a final ruling on Medina Spirit.NHLANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Adam Henrique had a goal and an assist, Troy Terry extended his points streak to 10 games and the Anaheim Ducks beat Arizona 3-1 to send the Coyotes to their 11th straight loss to start the season.Sonny Milano and Sam Carrick also scored in the third straight victory for the Ducks, who have earned a point in six of their last seven games.Anthony Stolarz made 28 saves for Anaheim before missing out on his fourth career shutout on Shayne Gostisbehere’s goal with 7.8 seconds to play. Rookie Karel Vejmelka stopped 28 shots while Arizona fell to 0-10-1. The Coyotes are the league’s remaining winless team, and have tied the 2017-18 Coyotes for the franchise’s longest losing streak to start the season.The Coyotes’ streak also matches three other teams for the second-longest winless skid to start a season in NHL history, according to the league’s record books. Only the 1943-44 New York Rangers have been worse — opening 0-11-0 and eventually going 0-14-1 before their first win.AUTO RACINGAVONDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Ben Rhodes opened the NASCAR season with back-to-back wins and closed it by winning the Truck Series championship. Rhodes finished third at Phoenix Raceway behind race winner Chandler Smith and Stuart Friesen. But he was the first championship contender to cross the finish line and claimed his first NASCAR championship. Rhodes won for ThorSport Racing, a Truck Series team since 1996 based in Ohio. The team this year returned to Toyota, which claimed the first of three national series championships being awarded this weekend at Phoenix. Rhodes won the fourth drivers championship for ThorSport — the team won in 2013, 2014 and 2019 with Matt Crafton — but it was the first owner championship for Duke and Rhonda Thorson. Rhodes needed a late pass of fellow title contender Zane Smith to win the title. He chased Smith for two dozen laps before getting past him for the title-deciding position with eight laps remaining. AVONDALE, Ariz. (AP) — NASCAR denounced its association with the “Let’s go, Brandon” political cry being used across the country as an insult directed at President Joe Biden. Steve Phelps, NASCAR’s president, said the top motorsports series in the United States does not want to be associated with politics “on the left or the right.”Phelps also said NASCAR will pursue action against any illegal use of its trademarks on merchandise boasting the slogan. Retired baseball star Lenny Dykstra posted a photo on Twitter this week of a man eating breakfast at a New Jersey hotel wearing a black “Let’s go, Brandon” shirt alongside NASCAR’s trademarked color bars. Brandon Brown won his first career NASCAR race in October in Alabama, and the Talladega Superspeedway crowd at the Xfinity Series race used an expletive to chant derisively about Biden during Brown’s interview. It was not clear if NBC Sports reporter Kelli Stavast, who was wearing a headset, could hear what the crowd was saying during the interview, and she incorrectly told Brown the fans were cheering “Let’s go, Brandon.”The phrase has become a rallying cry for Biden’s critics, and “Let’s go, Brandon” is now conservative code for the original vulgar chant.