Whether it’s an entire spit-roasted pig or the more accessible skillet-braised shoulder, pork frequently is the focus of feasts during religious festivals in Bali, a pocket of Hindu tradition in majority-Muslim Indonesia.One particularly delicious dish is babi guling, a fork-tender pig roast seasoned with a long list of spices and aromatics. For the version in our book “COOKish,” which limits recipes to just six ingredients without sacrificing flavor, we used one of our favorite spice cabinet shortcuts — the blend garam masala, which includes cumin, cardamom, cinnamon, mace, black pepper, coriander and sometimes more. Adding turmeric and lemon grass layers in more complexity.We start by making a paste with the lemon grass, shallots and turmeric, then add the spice blend and brown sugar, which adds sweetness that balances all the spice and helps with browning in the oven. The paste gets rubbed into all the nooks and crannies of the meat, helping flavor penetrate beyond the surface.ADVERTISEMENTLeaving the fat on the surface of the pork roast — but scoring it with a knife — creates a surface to which the seasoning paste can adhere. For easy cleanup, line the baking sheet with foil before setting the roast on top.
ROASTED PORK SHOULDER WITH TURMERIC AND LEMON GRASS
Start to finish: 4¾ hours (20 minutes active)Servings: 8 to 104 medium shallots, peeled and quartered3 lemon grass stalks, dry outer layers discarded, trimmed to bottom 6 inches and cut into 1-inch lengths3 tablespoons packed brown sugar2 tablespoons neutral oil1 tablespoon garam masala1 tablespoon ground turmericKosher salt and ground black pepper5-pound boneless pork shoulder roast, untrimmedHeat the oven to 300°F. In a food processor, process the shallots, lemon grass, sugar, oil, garam masala, turmeric, 1 tablespoon salt and 2 teaspoons pepper to form a paste. With a knife, score a crosshatch pattern into the surface fat on top of the roast. Rub the paste onto all sides of the roast and into the cuts. Place the pork fat-side up on a rimmed baking sheet and roast until the center reaches 195°F, about 4 hours. Let rest for 30 minutes, then cut into slices for serving.Optional garnish: Thinly sliced scallions OR chopped fresh cilantro OR lime wedges OR sambal OR a combination.—-EDITOR’S NOTE: For more recipes, go to Christopher Kimball’s Milk Street at 177milkstreet.com/ap