ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Kirill Kaprizov scored his first goal of the season 2:02 into overtime and the Minnesota Wild beat the Ottawa Senators 5-4 Tuesday night.Marcus Foligno scored twice for Minnesota, which got points from 11 players and won for the sixth time — all by one goal. Caleb Addison and Nico Sturm also scored. Cam Talbot had 24 saves for the Wild, winners of nine straight against Ottawa.Ten players had points for Ottawa. Drake Batherson had a goal and assist. Nick Paul, Josh Norris and Chris Tierney added goals. Michael Del Zotto had two assists. Filip Gustavsson overcame a shaky start and made 38 saves, including 20 in the third period.On the winner, Kevin Fiala gathered the puck in his own zone, fought off Tim Stutzle into the Senators’ end and fed a pass across to Kaprizov. Last season’s Calder Trophy winner went down to one knee and scored from near the right dot. ADVERTISEMENTTrailing 3-1, Ottawa scored three times in less than six minutes of the second period to take a short-lived lead.Batherson buried a shot from the right circle — a play Minnesota unsuccessfully challenged for a high stick earlier in the shift — and Josh Norris scored from the edge of the blue paint on the ensuing power play to make it 3-3.Tierney, in his 500th game, scored on a rebound when the puck bounced up, deflected off his arm and past Talbot. Initially called no goal, the Senators successfully challenged, and video review showed that Tierney was trying to get out of the way, not direct the puck in.Foligno converted a pass from Matt Dumba to tie the game 4-4 just over two minutes later.Coming off a lackluster 5-1 loss Monday in Chicago, Ottawa gave up the game’s first seven shots and was quickly down by a couple goals.Foligno scored on a rebound and Addison scored his first career goal 27 seconds later when his long shot deflected off Del Zotto and popped over Gustavsson. Paul redirected a pass from Connor Brown for an Ottawa tally. Sturm scored on a rebound for a 3-1 Wild lead.NOTES: Wild D Alex Goligoski (upper-body injury) took part in the morning skate but did not play. … Ottawa LW Austin Watson made his season debut after injuring an ankle Oct. 7. He fought Brandon Duhaime in the first. ... Del Zotto played for the first time since Oct. 21. ... This was the first of 32 Hockey Fights Cancer nights scheduled around the league this month.UP NEXTSenators: Home against Vegas on Thursday.Wild: At Pittsburgh on Saturday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports