Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Climate justice-‘Off-label’ covid vaccines-Online courses-------STORIES:After COP26, the hard work begins on making climate promises real: 5 things to watch in 2022ADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The world promised progress at the Glasgow climate conference. Now it has to turn those promises into reality. A former senior UN official describes what to watch for in the coming year. 1232 words. By Rachel Kyte, Tufts UniversityInfrastructure law: High-speed internet is as essential as water and electricityCOMMENTARY The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act designates broadband internet access as an essential service and targets billions of dollars to close the digital divide. 1067 words. By Hernán Galperin, USC Annenberg School for Communication and JournalismAn environmental sociologist explains how permaculture offers a path to climate justiceCOMMENTARY Permaculture – a mashup of ‘permanent’ and ‘culture’ –  is a way of doing agriculture that’s inspired by the resilience and biodiversity of healthy natural ecosystems. 1111 words. By Christina Ergas, University of TennesseeAs climate change parches the Southwest, here’s a better way to share water from the shrinking Colorado RiverCOMMENTARY A Western scholar proposes allocating water from the Colorado River based on percentages of its actual flow instead of fixed amounts that exceed what’s there – and including tribes this time. 1040 words. By Daniel Craig McCool, University of UtahADVERTISEMENT‘Off-label’ use is common in medicine – a bioethicist and legal philosopher explain why the COVID-19 vaccines are differentRELIGION The CDC’s COVID-19 vaccine provider agreement prohibits health care professionals from administering the vaccines in people for whom they are not yet authorized or approved. But this departs from longstanding norms. 1045 words. By Elizabeth Lanphier, University of Cincinnati  and Shannon Fyfe, George Mason UniversityWhat Americans can learn from other cultures about the language of gratitudeRELIGION Cultures around the world say ‘thank yous’ in many different ways. Two communication scholars explain what these expressions can reveal to us. 727 words. By Jeremy David Engels, Penn State and Elaine Hsieh, University of OklahomaHow to make voting districts fair to voters, not partiesCOMMENTARY Cracking down on gerrymandering isn’t enough to make elections more competitive. 1147 words. By Linda Fowler, Dartmouth College and Chris Fowler, Penn StateHow my family makes holiday decisions that work for everyone, according to a negotiation expertCOMMENTARY Negotiation does not have to be win-lose; it can and should be win-win. 1266 words. By Rachel Croson, University of MinnesotaWant to take an online course? Here are 4 tips to make sure you get the most out of it for your careerCOMMENTARY Enrollment in online courses surged during the pandemic. An expert on online learning behaviors shares what to do before, during and after taking a course in order to reap the most benefits. 757 words. By Anne Trumbore, University of VirginiaRussian anti-satellite weapon test: What happened and what are the risks?SCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Russia destroyed one of its old satellites during a successful test of an anti-satellite weapon. A space security expert explains what this weapon was and the dangers of the expanding debris field. 937 words. By Wendy Whitman Cobb, US Air Force School of Advanced Air and Space StudiesUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.