CONWAY, S.C. (AP) — Nose tackle Thomas Gore stopped Shermari Jones’ run for a two-point conversion with 1:09 to play and Georgia State held on to defeat No. 22 Coastal Carolina 42-40 for the Panthers’ first-ever victory over a ranked opponent Saturday. Darren Grainger threw a go-ahead touchdown and Tucker Gregg added his third scoring run after Georgia State (5-5, 3-3 Sun Belt Conference) blew a 28-16 lead in the second half to go up 42-34. But Coastal Carolina (8-2, 4-2) drew within two points on Bryce Carpenter’s 17-yard scoring pass to tight end Isaiah Likely. The Chants tried to find Likely for the tie, but a pass interference call led to another attempt. This time, Gore quickly corralled Jones from behind for the critical stop. Carpenter made his second straight start for injured Coastal starter Grayson McCall. Georgia State had been 0-11 against ranked opponents overall and 0-3 this season. The loss also ended Coastal’s 12-game home win streak dating to 2019. ADVERTISEMENTGregg’s third touchdown was a 4-yard run with 2:36 that pushed Georgia State’s lead to 42-34. The Panthers led the Chanticleers 28-16 in the second quarter, but were down 34-28 after their offense gained only 9 yards the first 23 minutes of the second half. But Grainger, a junior who grew up only a few miles from Coastal Carolina and played at Conway High, directed a 75-yard TD drive. He hit tight end Roger Carter with a 39-yard pass into Coastal territory, then Grainger ran for 8 yards to set up a first-and-goal. After Grainger was driven out of bounds at the 2 on third down, he moved left and found Dixon a step inside the goal line for the go-ahead score. Grainger completed 18 of 24 throws for 198 yards and two touchdowns in front of several family and friends wearing blue shirts with Grainger’s name and number. Jones ran for three touchdown, including an 8-yard score in the fourth quarter to put Coastal Carolina up 34-28 with less than five minutes left. Braydon Bennett had a career-high 128 yards rushing, including a 75-yard touchdown run in the second quarter. THE TAKEAWAYGeorgia State: The Panthers had come close before to Top 25 success, including a 21-17 loss at No. 24 Louisiana-Lafayette on Nov. 4. Coach Shawn Elliott talked about finishing out games and his team listened, with several big plays down the stretch. Coastal Carolina: The Chanticleers lost their undefeated season last month and their chance at the Sun Belt’s East Division with this one. They’d need Appalachian State to lose two of its final three games for a shot at a league title. UP NEXTGeorgia State closes the regular season with two home games starting with Arkansas State next Saturday. Coastal Carolina plays its last home game against Texas State on Saturday. ___More AP college football: https://apnews.com/hub/college-football and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25. Sign up for the AP’s college football newsletter: https://apnews.com/cfbtop25