Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Alex Jones-CBO-Body cams-------STORIES:Congress is waiting on the CBO for its Build Back Better report – but how did fiscal scorekeepers come to be so powerful in politics?ADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Five Democrats are refusing to vote on a signature bill until the Congressional Budget Office delivers its full cost estimate. For a small agency, the CBO can hold a lot of legislative sway. 1179 words. By Philip Rocco, Marquette UniversityCancers are in an evolutionary battle with treatments – evolutionary game theory could tip the advantage to medicineSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Applying the principles of ecology and evolution could help oncologists anticipate cancer drug resistance and optimize their treatment plans for patients. 750 words. By Anuraag Bukkuri, University of South FloridaThe concrete effects of body cameras on police accountabilityCOMMENTARY Police body-worn cameras increase disciplinary action against officers and reduce racial bias against citizen complainants, according to a recent study. 769 words. By Suat Cubukcu, American University; Erdal Tekin, American University; Nusret Sahin, Stockton University, and Volkan Topalli, Georgia State UniversityJournalism in middle America got communities through the pandemicCOMMENTARY The decline of the news industry has been well documented. How did news organizations in the US heartland, facing potential extinction, survive – and even thrive – through the pandemic? 1125 words. By William Thomas Mari, Louisiana State University ADVERTISEMENTHow getting kids to make grocery lists and set the table can improve their vocabulary and willingness to learnCOMMENTARY Grocery shopping and family meals are prime opportunities to build reading and math skills – particularly for young Latino children, a new study finds. 815 words. By Diana Leyva, University of PittsburghInfrastructure matters for wildlife too – here’s how aging culverts are blocking Pacific salmon migrationCOMMENTARY Salmon migrate thousands of miles from inland streams to the ocean and back. The newly enacted infrastructure bill includes funding to help salmon and other wild species on their way. 968 words. By Ashlee Abrantes, University of WashingtonGun violence soared during the COVID-19 pandemic, a new study finds – but the reasons why are complexCOMMENTARY The pandemic brought about a sharp rise in mental health concerns, deep unemployment and an unprecedented amount of social isolation  – a potentially deadly combination alongside rising gun sales. 417 words. By Paddy Ssentongo, Penn State and Jennifer McCall-Hosenfeld, Penn StateCompanies are pushing sweetened drinks to children through advertising and misleading labels – and families are buyingCOMMENTARY A new study looked at advertising and purchase data for children’s drinks and suggests that ads and pricing strategies contribute to sweetened children’s drink purchases. 988 words. By Fran Fleming-Milici, University of ConnecticutUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.