GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Hot-shooting Roope Hintz scored his seventh goal in eight games and the Dallas Stars extended their winning streak to four with a 3-2 victory over the Arizona Coyotes on Saturday night.Jacob Peterson and Jason Robertson also scored for the Stars, who have won six of their last seven. Joe Pavelski had two assists. Braden Holtby had 25 saves for the Stars, including two on point-blank shots midway through the third period.Antoine Roussel and Travis Boyd scored for the Coyotes. Boyd has scored in a career-best three straight games. Scott Wedgewood, who was pulled with two minutes remaining, had 26 saves. All of Hintz’s goals have come in the last eight games, and he has 11 points in his last nine games. He kicked off the scoring 54 seconds into the game, starting with a shot from the left circle that Wedgewood stopped but could not control. Pavelski could not stuff in the rebound, but the puck bounced to Hintz, who pushed it in.ADVERTISEMENTThe Stars never trailed, although Arizona tied it twice, the first from Antoine Roussel, who tied it about four minutes into the game by getting behind Holtby and swatting in a high puck into the net after a shot from the right circle bounced off Stars’ defenseman John Klingsman in the crease. The goal stood after being reviewed for possible high stick.Peterson gave the Stars a 2-1 lead late in the first period when the Coyotes could not clear a puck from in front and he punched it into the left side. Boyd tied at 2 4:24 into the game when he picked up a puck in front after it bounced off teammate Kyle Capobianco and pushed it in, but Dallas went back in front about 4 minutes later when Robertson took a pass from Andrej Sekera and found a wide open right side.Neither team scored in the third period.ICE CHIPSCoyotes center Jay Beagle (lower body) was placed on injured reserve. … Coyotes forwards Andrew Ladd and Johan Larsson were removed from COVID-19 protocols. … Coyotes’ Jakob Chychrun leads the league defensemen with 66-plus shots on goal. … Coyotes forward Clayton Keller limped into the locker room after blocking a slap shot with his leg midway through the second period but returned later in the period.UP NEXTStars: Host Carolina on Tuesday.Coyotes: Play at Winnipeg on Monday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports