AUSTIN, Texas (AP) — Marcus Carr scored a season-high 19 points and No. 7 Texas beat Sam Houston State 73-57 Monday night.Andrew Jones and Courtney Ramey each scored 14 points for Texas (5-1). Timmy Allen had 12 points and seven assists. Jones added four steals.Savion Flagg, a graduate transfer from Texas A&M, led Sam Houston (2-5) with 16 points. Demarkus Lampley and Javion May each scored 11.New Texas coach Chris Beard is doing everything he can to pump energy into the Longhorns’ program. The latest: A trip to the past with only students invited to join the ride.On Monday night, Texas returned to the cozy and cramped Gregory Gym in the heart of campus, a venue the Longhorns last played in nearly 50 years ago.The Longhorns left Gregory Gym behind when the spacious but soon-to-be-demolished Frank Erwin Center opened in 1977. Beard made a one-game return to the 3,234-seat Gregory Gym, with only students and some VIPs allowed to attend, as part of an homage to the program’s past and an invitation to join the party he’s trying to build for the future. This party started before the game, at a campus gathering arranged by Beard, who then accompanied students on a walk to the gym.ADVERTISEMENTSam Houston made a strong effort to spoil the party, using an 8-0 run to tie the game at 28-all with 3:13 left in the first half. But Texas trumped that with a 10-0 spurt, with Carr scoring eight of those points.Carr averaged 19.4 points last season for Minnesota before transferring to Texas. He had a career-best 41 points against Nebraska. He received first-team all-Big Ten recognition. His previous high at Texas this season was 11.BIG PICTURESam Houston: The Bearkats have not shot well early in the season. They began the game ranked 339th nationally in field-goal accuracy (37.5%) and 263rd in 3-point shooting (30.6). Late in the first half, Sam Houston was at 50% inside and outside the line, but the Bearkats missed their last six shots.Texas: The Longhorns have only been tested once this season, an 86-74 loss at then-No. 1 Gonzaga. Their other games, all wins, were against a collection of much smaller programs from outside the power six conferences. UP NEXTSam Houston State: Hosts Schreiner on Thursday.Texas: Hosts Texas Rio Grande Valley on Friday.___More AP college basketball: https://apnews.com/hub/college-basketball and https://apnews.com/hub/ap-top-25-college-basketball-poll and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25