NEW YORK (AP) — The Los Angeles Rams are tied for the best record in the NFL.And they hope to stay on top after Monday’s big trade.The Rams  acquired linebacker Von Miller from the Broncos  for second- and third-round picks in the 2022 draft.Winners of four straight, the Rams have climbed back to the top spot of the latest AP Pro32 poll.They received seven of 12 first-place votes for 375 points in balloting Tuesday by media members who regularly cover the NFL.The Green Bay Packers, who knocked off the then-unbeaten Arizona Cardinals last week, earned the remaining five first-place votes for 374 points.The Packers climbed two spots to No. 2 and the Cardinals fell two places to No. 3.ADVERTISEMENT“You can make the case that Davante Adams is the best wide receiver in the NFL,” said Rick Gosselin of the Talk of Fame Network.“He’s gone to the Pro Bowl each of the last four seasons and earned first-team All-Pro in 2020 when he led the NFL with 18 TD receptions.“Losing him, you’d think, would be a huge blow to the Green Bay offense. Well, Adams has missed seven games with injuries over the last three seasons and the Packers have won them all, including last week at Arizona. Which underscores the value of Aaron Rodgers to the Packers. He wins no matter who is catching his passes.”The Rams, Cardinals and Packers are all 7-1 and tied for the best record in the NFL going into Week 9.The Dallas Cowboys continued their climb, gaining a place to No. 4 after topping the Minnesota Vikings 20-16 on Sunday night behind backup quarterback Cooper Rush, who threw for 325 yards and two touchdowns in place of the injured Dak Prescott.“A wise move to sit Dak Prescott with a calf injury, and a win over the Vikings with Cooper Rush was an added benefit for a team that’s running away with the NFC East and staking a claim to a Super Bowl-worthy season,” Newsday’s Bob Glauber said.The defending champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers dropped three spots to No. 5 after losing to the New Orleans Saints 36-27 on Sunday. It was the third time that the Saints have defeated the Buccaneers since Brady joined Tampa Bay for the 2020 season. The Saints climbed five spots to No. 8.The Buffalo Bills and Tennessee Titans switched places as the Bills moved up a spot to No. 6 and the Titans slipped one to No. 7.“(The) Bills look like the most complete team in the AFC,” Fox Sports’ John Czarnecki said.The Titans will be without Derrick Henry for several weeks  after learning that the star running back needs right foot surgery. The Titans face a big challenge right away as they head to Los Angeles to take on the Rams on Sunday night.And the two teams coming off byes moved in opposite directions to round out the top 10. The Las Vegas Raiders gained two spots to move to No. 9 while the Baltimore Ravens dropped a place to 10th.___More AP NFL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL