GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Boone Jenner had three goals, Yegor Chinakhov scored in the seventh round of a shootout and the Columbus Blue Jackets outlasted the Arizona Coyotes 5-4 on Thursday night.The Coyotes and Blue Jackets traded goals all night, including four in less than three minutes late in the second period. Neither team scored in overtime, then goalies Elvis Merzlikins of Columbus and Arizona’s Scott Wedgewood swapped saves to keep extending the shootout.Chinakhov finally ended it by slipping a shot past Wedgwood after Merzlikins stopped Antoine Roussel.Justin Danforth scored his first NHL goal and Merzlikins had 25 saves for Columbus, which has won five of seven.Jakob Chychrun had a goal and an assist for Arizona. Ryan Dzingel scored in his return after missing 10 games with an upper-body injury, and Wedgewood made 42 saves. Phil Kessel and Lawson Crouse also scored for the Coyotes, who came up short in their bid to win consecutive games for the first time this season.ADVERTISEMENTThe Coyotes won their second game of the season Tuesday, beating St. Louis 3-2 behind Barrett Hayton’s first career two-goal game.They got off to a good start Thursday, scoring six minutes in when Dzingel beat Merzlikins with a wrister through Crouse’s screen from the left circle on a power play.Columbus set up on its own power play late in the period and Jenner slipped a short backhand between Wedgewood’s glove and the near post.Both goalies were good in the second period before a flurry of four goals in 2 minutes, 48 seconds.The Coyotes retook the lead when Kessel scored from the right circle on a shot that Merzlikins had trouble seeing through a passing teammate.Jenner scored 22 seconds later by lifting a rebound over a prone Wedgewood. Danforth made it two goals in 42 seconds, fighting off Coyotes defenseman Cam Dineen to beat Wedgewood glove side on a rebound.Just when it looked as though the Coyotes were headed for another meltdown, Crouse gathered a puck that bounced off someone out front and beat Merzlikins to the stick side to tie it 3-all.Danforth just missed his second career goal midway through the third period, hitting the post on an open net after Coyotes center Alex Galchenyuk clipped his stick. Zach Werenski hit another post to start a power play, but this time it ended in a goal when Boone punched in the rebound. About a dozen Columbus fans celebrated by throwing hats onto the ice from behind the Blue Jackets’ bench.Chychrun tied it 41 seconds later, taking a nice feed from Clayton Keller and beating Merzlikins to the stick side. COVID-19 ISSUESArizona was missing two players who are in COVID-19 protocol, left wings Andrew Ladd and Johan Larsson. Ladd missed his third straight game, Larsson his second.Columbus played without forward Max Domi for the sixth straight game while he’s in COVID-19 protocol.UP NEXTColumbus plays at Vegas on Saturday.Arizona hosts Detroit on Saturday.___More AP NHL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL