ATLANTA (AP) — Georgia linebacker Adam Anderson is being investigated by Athens police on a rape allegation.No charges have been filed, but Anderson’s status is uncertain for No. 1 Georgia’s game against Missouri on Saturday.According to an Athens-Clarke County Police incident report obtained by The Associated Press, a 21-year-old woman reported the alleged rape Oct. 29. According to the incident report, she told police she went to an Athens residence on Oct. 29 after having some drinks and woke up on a bed while Anderson was having sexual intercourse with her. The woman told officers the sex was not consensual and that she was able to leave the residence.Athens-Clarke County Police Lt. Shaun Barnett told the AP: “The investigation is still ongoing.”The day after the alleged incident, Anderson had seven tackles in Georgia’s 34-7 win over Florida in Jacksonville, Florida.ADVERTISEMENTAnderson’s attorney, Steve Sadow, said Anderson denies the allegation.“Adam denies in the strongest terms possible the unfounded and unsupported allegations of sexual misconduct,” Sadow said in a statement released to the AP.Added Sadow: “In the interest of justice and fairness, Adam hopes and prays the UGA community and the public keep an open mind and not prejudge him based on inconsistent, unsubstantiated and baseless accusations.” Georgia coach Kirby Smart said in a statement released on Thursday: “We are aware of the report and we don’t comment on law enforcement matters, but I’ve been clear about the high standards we have for our student-athletes on and off the field. I will be working closely with our administration to ensure we cooperate fully with all law enforcement and campus protocols.”Georgia officials did not reply to requests to confirm an ESPN report Anderson won’t play against Missouri and has been suspended indefinitely.Anderson, a senior, leads the Bulldogs with five sacks. He ranks fifth on the team with 32 tackles.___More AP college football: https://apnews.com/hub/college-football and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25. Sign up for the AP’s college football newsletter: https://apnews.com/cfbtop25