LOUISVILLE, Ky. (AP) — A gunman who walked onto an interstate in Louisville fatally shot a construction worker and wounded a police officer early Friday, officials said.The shooting happened just before 2:30 a.m. when a man walked onto the interstate and shot the construction worker before approaching the patrol vehicle and shooting the Louisville Metro Police Department officer once, officials told the Courier Journal.The wounded officer returned fire and injured the shooter, according to the Courier Journal. Both the suspect and the officer were taken to a local hospital in stable condition, police said.Police Chief Erika Shields told the Courier Journal that the motive for the shootings remains unknown. ADVERTISEMENTThe victim was identified as Fred O’Bannon, 37, who was working for Louisville Paving and Construction at the site. According to Hunter Strickland, the company’s executive vice president, O’Bannon leaves behind a fiancée and children. “Needless to say, our entire team is devastated by the loss of Fred and we stand committed to support his family and team members through this tragedy,” Strickland said in a statement. “We ask that everyone join us in keeping Fred, his family and his friends in your thoughts and prayers.”The officer, who has not been identified, was helping with traffic control for the construction crew. He fired at the suspect several times after pursuing him on foot onto the highway, Shields said. The suspect was identified in court documents as Keyshaun Joseph Canard Stewart, 25, according to WDRB-TV. According to the documents, he has been charged with murder, attempted murder of a police officer, attempted first-degree assault of a police officer, first-degree wanton endangerment, fleeing or evading police (on foot) and possession of a handgun by a convicted felon.Court records show Stewart has a prior felony conviction and was forbidden to possess a firearm at the time of the shooting.O’Bannon’s sister Nezze Wilson told WDRB-TV that he was well-loved and always there for her. “I had gun violence against me back in March of last year,” she said. “He was the first person on scene thinking something happened to me. I’ll never forget it. I’ll never forget it.”The shooting is under investigation by Kentucky State Police.