SANTA FE, N.M. (AP) — Progressive New Mexico mayors have won second terms in Albuquerque, where violent crime and policing concerns dominated debate, and in the state capital of Santa Fe, which is in the throws of rapid growth and related concerns about housing affordability and cultural landmarks.Uncertified election results showed Albuquerque Mayor Tim Keller winning nearly 56% of the vote to defeat a Democratic county sheriff and a Republican talk show host. Publishing entrepreneur and Santa Fe Mayor Alan Webber won almost 55% in uncertified results, defeating a Democratic city council member and a Republican who flouted local mask requirements last year.The election extends a political winning streak for 43-year-old Keller, a former state auditor and legislator. But Republicans have a chance to hold a majority on the city council for the first time since 2013, amid pending runoff votes and the ouster of Keller ally Lan Sena to former police Officer Louie Sanchez — a proponent of greater budget austerity.ADVERTISEMENTKeller said he’ll be open about the city’s challenges and calls for solutions.“What we’re going to do going forward is we’re going to call it like it is. If problems are complex, we’re going to say that,” he said. “When we need assistance from other governments, we’re going to hold them accountable to help us. We’re also going to ask everyone to pitch in.”Keller is contending with a record-breaking spate of homicides while emphasizing programs that address crime’s root causes, such as addiction and poverty. He says public safety efforts are adequately funded, while backing pilot programs for gun violence prevention and emergency responses that leave police out of some mental health calls.Police and crime issues came to the forefront in cities big and small after the killing of George Floyd last year. Albuquerque’s reckoning with police brutality predates Keller’s first election as mayor, with city police operating under a consent decree with the U.S. Justice Department since 2014.In Santa Fe, Webber campaigned on his handling of pandemic safety, financial upheaval in a tourism-dependent local economy and efforts to promote affordable housing.The 73-year-old mayor touted Santa Fe’s push to provide permits and stand up more residential housing, including rental units in several multi-family apartment complexes.“At the same time, we are conscious and very aware that people don’t want to lose the quality of life that makes Santa Fe so special,” said Webber of the capital city that added nearly 20,000 resident between 2010 and 2020 — expanding by almost 30%.Webber, the founder of Fast Company magazine who moved to New Mexico about two decades ago from Boston, withstood withering criticism on the campaign trail of the city’s response to conflicts over historical monuments.ADVERTISEMENTIn October 2020, a tumultuous crowd toppled a downtown Civil War-era monument that honored Union soldiers including some Hispanics who died fighting Indigenous tribes and Confederate soldiers. The statue was reviled by many Native Americans for glorifying military campaigns against their ancestors — and toppled by mostly white, non-Hispanic protesters.Webber sounded a note of reconciliation after his reelection. “I’m also grateful for the people who voted for other candidates because they’ve got a lot of wisdom and knowledge and great ideas,” he said. “We’ve got to come back together and work with each other and respect each other.”Voters ousted a city council member from a heavily Hispanic district who had endorsed Webber. Councilor Roman “Tiger” Abeyta lost by about 6 percentage points to Lee Garcia.In Albuquerque, Keller’s unsuccessful challengers included two-term Bernalillo County Sheriff Manny Gonzales, who backed a move by then-President Donald Trump to send more federal law enforcement agents to Albuquerque.Tuesday’s elections were a preamble to statewide and congressional contests in 2022, when Democrats hope to prolong their hold on all statewide offices, including governor, and majorities in the Legislature.Webber was challenged unsuccessfully by Democrat JoAnne Vigil Coppler — a city councilor, real estate agent and Latina born in Santa Fe — who cast herself as a guardian of respect for the city’s cultural traditions.___Cedar Attanasio contributed reporting from Santa Fe. Attanasio is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on under-covered issues.