CARDIFF, Wales (AP) — Wales has been flagging its injury woes for months. Fiji’s buildup to their rugby test on Sunday hasn’t been easy either.The Fijians almost cancelled their European tour like Samoa did because travel and quarantine restrictions risked stranding their people after the tour.In the end, Fiji juggled its resources and patched together a squad and coaches without picking any players in the southern hemisphere, nor coach Vern Cotter and his staff.Outgoing Fiji Sevens coach Gareth Baber, a Welshman, agreed to sign off his Fiji time by taking interim charge of the team. His staff includes Edinburgh attack coach Duncan Hodge, breakdown specialist Richie Gray, and former Ireland captain Rory Best.When they gathered in Madrid last week, Fiji announced captain and center Levani Botia was out of the tour to have a knee operation, though two days later he played for his La Rochelle club. Clermont No. 8 Peceli Yato was also lost to a knee injury.ADVERTISEMENTAfter a rusty first half with five debutants against under-strength Spain last weekend, Fiji clicked in the second half and went 31-0 in a 43-13 win.Vilimoni Botitu, one of Fiji’s Olympic sevens gold medalists, did enough to stay in midfield for the test against Wales, alongside Waisea Nayacalevu, who captained the side for the first time.Among six changes, Lyon’s Josua Tuisova and Edinburgh’s Eroni Sau were promoted from the bench against Spain to the wings in place of Olympic champs Jiuta Wainiqolo and Aminiasi Tuimaba, who made their debuts. Northampton scrumhalf Frank Lomani was preferred to Nikola Matawalu.Loosehead prop Peni Ravai, from Clermont, and No. 8 Viliame Mata, from Edinburgh, were also starting after being in the reserves against Spain. Leone Nakarawa, playing for Fiji since 2009, was dropped out of the 23. Northampton veteran Api Ratuniyarawa rotated in for the Scarlets’ Tevita Ratuva.“We got a big pack loaded with experience so it’s important that we utilize them correctly,” Baber said.There might be two more debuts for the last uncapped players in the squad. Hooker Zuriel Togiatama, just signed for the Fijian Drua Super Rugby Pacific side, replaced Brive’s injured Peni Narisia, and Clermont’s Apisai Naqalevu has taken Botani’s spot.“I’m looking forward to seeing them go,” Baber said.Cotter has monitored them from afar and had input on everything. He has high hopes.“We should get away with the mindset of just competing with these teams but actually playing to beat them,” Cotter said. “We are working on the skills and on what we can do to become a more resilient opposition and learn to win.”Wales and Fiji are due to meet in a fifth consecutive Rugby World Cup in 2023. The 2019 pool game went to Wales 29-17 after three tries by wing Josh Adams.ADVERTISEMENTThis time, Adams is in the centers for the first time to try and increase his utility value in a World Cup squad. His wing has gone to Alex Cuthbert, recalled for the first time since 2017 after good showings for Leicester.It’s a reasonably strong Wales side, captained by flanker Ellis Jenkins. The scrum has been a liability but there’s only one change to the pack which faced South Africa: Thomas Young is on the flank for a first cap in two years after agreeing to move to Cardiff after eight years at Wasps. Dan Biggar, Louis Rees-Zammit and Liam Williams bolster the backline.Coach Wayne Pivac, a former Fiji coach, has promised some minutes for uncapped Exeter loose forward Christ Tshiunza, aged 19, in hope he’s ready by the time of the 2023 World Cup.“Just imagine him in two years’ time with the training and the gym,” Pivac said.___Lineups:Wales: Liam Williams, Alex Cuthbert, Josh Adams, Johnny Williams, Louis Rees-Zammit, Dan Biggar, Kieran Hardy; Taine Basham, Thomas Young, Ellis Jenkins (captain), Adam Beard, Will Rowlands, Tomas Francis, Ryan Elias, Rhys Carre. Reserves: Bradley Roberts, Gareth Thomas, WillGriff John, Christ Tshiunza, Seb Davies, Tomos Williams, Callum Sheedy, Nick Tompkins Fiji: Setareki Tuicuvu, Josua Tuisova, Waisea Nayacalevu (captain), Vilimoni Botitu, Eroni Sau, Ben Volavola, Frank Lomani; Viliame Mata, Mesulame Kunavula, Albert Tuisue, Temo Mayanavanua, Api Ratuniyarawa, Mesake Doge, Sam Matavesi, Peni Ravai. Reserves: Zuriel Togiatama, Eroni Mawi, Leeroy Atalifo, Tevita Ratuva, Masivesi Dakuwaqa, Nikola Matawalu, Apisai Naqalevu, Aminiasi Tuimaba.___More AP rugby: https://apnews.com/hub/rugby and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports