Thanksgiving leftovers are an easy meal to put on repeat, but the turkey gets drier and drier with each day. The key to salvaging it — other than sandwiches slathered with mayonnaise — is rehydrating it in a flavorful sauce that turns it into a completely different meal. A taco recipe from our book “Milk Street Tuesday Nights,” which limits recipes to 45 minutes or less, is a great way to use leftover turkey. We lay the foundation for a chili verde salsa by browning onions and poblano chilies in a skillet, then simmering the vegetables in cumin-spiked chicken broth.A portion of the liquid is pureed in a blender with tomatillos to make the salsa, while the turkey is reheated in the remaining liquid. We add the puree to the pan to meld the flavors for an easy, spicy-tangy filling for corn tortillas, served with sour cream and pickled sliced jalapeños on the side.Canned tomatillos make the prep go quickly, but be sure to crush and drain them in a strainer over a bowl before using them. Otherwise, their packing liquid would make the sauce too thin.ADVERTISEMENTAnd if all the turkey has gone to sandwiches, a shredded rotisserie chicken works, too.
CHILE VERDE TACOS WITH TURKEY
Start to finish: 40 minutesServings: 42 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil3 poblano chilies, stemmed, halved, seeded and thinly sliced1 medium white onion, halved and thinly sliced2 teaspoons ground cumin½ cup low-sodium chicken broth or water26-ounce can tomatillos, crushed and drainedKosher salt and ground black pepper3 cups shredded cooked turkey or chicken¼ cup chopped fresh cilantro¼ cup lime juice, plus lime wedges to serveEight corn tortillas, warmedIn a 12-inch nonstick skillet over medium, heat the oil until barely smoking. Add the chilies and onion, then stir, cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until the vegetables are tender and the onions are well browned, about 10 minutes. Add the cumin and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. Stir in the broth, bring to a simmer and cook until most of the moisture has evaporated, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat. Transfer 1 cup of the mixture to a blender, add the drained tomatillos and blend until smooth. Taste and season with salt and pepper.Return the skillet to medium-high. Add the turkey and cook, stirring occasionally, until heated through, about 5 minutes. Stir in the pureed mixture and bring to a simmer. Off heat, stir in the cilantro and lime juice. Taste and season with salt and pepper. Serve with the tortillas and lime wedges.—-EDITOR’S NOTE: For more recipes, go to Christopher Kimball’s Milk Street at 177milkstreet.com/ap