SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Jordan Poole took the pressure off Stephen Curry with a season-best 31 points and the Golden State Warriors used one of their big third quarters of old to pull away and beat the Charlotte Hornets 114-92 on Wednesday night.Poole shot 11 for 21 and hit a career-high seven 3-pointers, while Curry shook off a slow start to add 15 points on 6-for-15 shooting — 3 of 11 on 3s — nine assists and eight rebounds.Miles Bridges scored 21 of his 32 points in the first half and finished with five 3-pointers, and Gordon Hayward had 23 points and 11 rebounds for the Hornets.Curry began 1 for 6 and missed his initial four 3-pointers before hitting from deep 53 seconds before halftime, when Golden State (6-1) led 53-52 and he had just five points.Poole scored 22 points in the initial two quarters: shooting 8 for 11 and 6 of 9 on 3s.LaMelo Ball had 14 points, eight assists and five rebounds but shot just 5 for 14 and missed all six tries from deep as Charlotte began a five-game West Coast swing.ADVERTISEMENTGary Payton II scored 14 points off the bench and drew a rousing ovation when he left the game late, and fellow reserve Damion Lee had 15 points after he missed Saturday’s win against Oklahoma City with a bruised right shoulder. Lee has scored in double figures every game this season.The Warriors capitalized on a three-day break during this eight-game homestand that matches a franchise record.Poole shined on a night the Warriors honored Tim Hardaway as they celebrate a different player each home game during their 75th anniversary season.Kelly Oubre Jr. didn’t score and missed all four of his shots playing 13 minutes against his former team after spending last season with Golden State.“It will be good to see Kelly,” Warriors coach Steve Kerr said pregame. “It was good having him.”There were seven lead changes and seven ties in the first half.NICE TO SEE YOU AGAINThe Warriors recalled forward Jonathan Kuminga and guard Moses Moody from the G League Santa Cruz Warriors, and they didn’t even have to travel. The Santa Cruz team beat the NBA G League Ignite in the first game of a doubleheader at Chase Center.Both entered for Golden State with 1:51 remaining.“Very unique for sure,” said Kerr, who got a rare chance to watch the G League game live.TIP-INSHornets: Terry Rozier missed his initial six field-goal tries and didn’t score until 35 seconds into the third on a finger roll. ... After the Hornets shot 15 of 39 on 3s in a 113-110 home loss Monday to Cleveland, they were 10 for 36 from long range. ADVERTISEMENTWarriors: Injured Splash Brother Klay Thompson did some shooting work on the court in full uniform before the game while he continues to work back from a torn right Achilles tendon that required surgery last Nov. 25. ... Green picked up a technical midway through the third. ... Golden State committed 10 turnovers in the first half leading to 13 Hornets points.UP NEXTHornets: At Sacramento on Friday night bringing a five-game winning streak against the Kings.Warriors: Host the Pelicans on Friday night having won 14 of the last 16 vs. New Orleans at home in the series and 27 of 32 in all.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports