1 of 2This undated photo shows Baylor associate head coach Joey McGuire during an NCAA college football game in Waco, Texas. Texas Tech is finalizing a deal to hire Baylor assistant and longtime Texas high school coach Joey McGuire as its next head coach. A person familiar with knowledge of the decision told The Associated Press on Monday, Nov. 8, 2021, that Tech was planning to announce the hiring of McGuire soon. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because details of an agreement were still be completed.  (Jerry Larson/Waco Tribune Herald, via AP)1 of 2This undated photo shows Baylor associate head coach Joey McGuire during an NCAA college football game in Waco, Texas. Texas Tech is finalizing a deal to hire Baylor assistant and longtime Texas high school coach Joey McGuire as its next head coach. A person familiar with knowledge of the decision told The Associated Press on Monday, Nov. 8, 2021, that Tech was planning to announce the hiring of McGuire soon. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because details of an agreement were still be completed.  (Jerry Larson/Waco Tribune Herald, via AP)Texas Tech named Baylor assistant and longtime Texas high school coach Joey McGuire as its next head coach on Monday. McGuire will be formally introduced Tuesday and assume head coaching duties immediately following the season. Sonny Cumbie will continue to serve as interim head coach for the three remaining regular-season games and any bowl appearance.“We are excited for this new chapter in Texas Tech Football under the direction of Coach McGuire,” athletic director Kirby Hocutt said. “Our search committee was impressed from the outset not only with his significant ties throughout the state of Texas but his enthusiasm and desire to serve as the head coach at Texas Tech.”McGuire is in his fifth season with Baylor. He was hired by former Bears coach Matt Rhule and retained as associate head coach when Dave Aranda took over in 2020 after Rhule went to the NFL as coach of the Carolina Panthers. McGuire is a member of the Texas High School Coaches Association Hall of Honor who led Cedar Hill to three state championships in 14 seasons.Texas Tech fired Matt Wells last month in the middle of the former Utah State coach’s third season. The Red Raiders were 5-3 when the move was made.ADVERTISEMENTThe Red Raiders (5-4), who are coming off an open date after a 52-21 loss at Oklahoma, have home games remaining against Iowa State and Oklahoma State before finishing the regular season at Baylor.___More AP college football: https://apnews.com/hub/college-football and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25. Sign up for the AP’s college football newsletter: https://apnews.com/cfbtop25