SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — Donovan Mitchell scored 26 points, Rudy Gobert added 21 points and 14 rebounds for his fifth straight double-double and the Utah Jazz beat the Sacramento Kings 123-105 on Saturday night.Mike Conley had 17 points and Jordan Clarkson scored 16 as Utah won its third straight blowout.The Jazz took the lead for good on 3-pointer by Joe Ingles early in the second quarter and led by 21 while winning their sixth straight against Sacramento.Gobert shot 8 of 12 from the floor, extending his NBA record of 51 consecutive games shooting 50% or better.“We’re playing differently as a team,” Gobert said. “We’re ready to move the ball in a better way. When we move the ball in a better way I get the ball more and I also get the opportunity to get more offensive rebounds. That’s the team we want to be. It’s hard to guard and it’s fun to play that way.”Richaun Holmes had 22 points and seven rebounds for Sacramento. The Kings have lost seven of eight.ADVERTISEMENT“They got us again,” said Kings coach Luke Walton, whose team has lost all three games against the Jazz this season. “For whatever reason we’re struggling to make shots right now and that’s making it more challenging on us. The fourth quarter was a disaster for us on both ends of the court. We weren’t stopping people and we weren’t making shots.”The game was paused for more than 10 minutes in the fourth quarter to allow workers to clean up after after an apparently intoxicated fan vomited on the court. The mess was cleared and the fan was escorted away from his courtside seat.That came as the Jazz were on a 12-2 run to start the final period and led 96-82.“That was a strange situation,” Utah coach Quin Snyder said. “We had gone on a pretty good run before that happened. We did a good job of keeping or concentration throughout.”Utah kept rolling when play resumed. Gobert dunked off a short lob pass from Ingles and Clarkson made a pull-up 3-pointer to make it 105-87.Hassan Whiteside scored on consecutive possessions and Mitchell followed with a bucket down low to push the Jazz lead to 21.Utah has won its last three games by a combined 69 points, beating Philadelphia by 35 and Toronto by 16 earlier in the week.TIP-INSJazz: Snyder was called for a technical foul in the third quarter.Kings: De’Aaron Fox shot 5 of 17. … Fans rained down boos and chanted “Fire Coach Walton!” in the final minutes. … Sacramento hasn’t defeated Utah since Nov. 1, 2019. … Walton and Buddy Hield were called for technicals in the first half. UP NEXTJazz: Play the Grizzlies on Monday. Utah has won six straight against Memphis.Kings: Face the 76ers on Monday. Philadelphia hasn’t lost in Sacramento since 2019.__More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/tag/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports