ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Adam Henrique had a goal and an assist, Troy Terry extended his points streak to 10 games and the Anaheim Ducks sent the Arizona Coyotes to their 11th straight loss to start the season with a 3-1 win Friday night.Sonny Milano and Sam Carrick also scored in the third straight victory for the Ducks, who have earned a point in six of their last seven games.Anthony Stolarz made 28 saves for Anaheim before missing out on his fourth career shutout on Shayne Gostisbehere’s goal with 7.8 seconds to play. He still earned his first win of the season for Anaheim, which had a six-game winless skid before outscoring its last three opponents by a combined 11-3 at home. Rookie Karel Vejmelka stopped 28 shots while Arizona fell to 0-10-1. The Coyotes are the league’s remaining winless team, and have tied the 2017-18 Coyotes for the franchise’s longest losing streak to start the season.ADVERTISEMENTThe Coyotes’ streak also matches three other teams for the second-longest winless skid to start a season in NHL history, according to the league’s record books. Only the 1943-44 New York Rangers have been worse — opening 0-11-0 and eventually going 0-14-1 before their first win.Ducks captain Ryan Getzlaf had an assist after being honored in a pregame ceremony for becoming the franchise’s career scoring leader. Getzlaf received a congratulatory hug from Teemu Selanne, who held the record until Getzlaf passed him on Sunday with the 989th point of a 17-year career spent entirely in Anaheim.Getzlaf now has 993 points and likely will soon be the 92nd member of the NHL’s 1,000-point club. After contemplating retirement last summer, he is enjoying a revitalized year with the Ducks’ talented young core, racking up a five-game points streak and earning 11 points in 12 games.Terry got the secondary assist on Henrique’s goal in the opening minute, giving him the Ducks’ longest points streak since 2016 and matching Connor McDavid for the longest active streak in the NHL. It’s also the longest of Terry’s career, and makes him the sixth player in franchise history to extend a points streak to 10 games.Henrique put the Ducks ahead just 34 seconds into the first period when Getzlaf’s pass deflected off a skate and off the boards before going straight to Henrique at the far post, where he scored his fifth goal.Henrique is off to a strong start to the new season with 11 points in 12 games. In February, Ducks general manager Bob Murray put Henrique on waivers just two seasons into his five-year, $29.125 million contract.Henrique set up Milano’s power-play goal late in the first period. The Ducks have scored 10 power play goals in 12 games this season after having the least effective power play in modern NHL history last season with just 11 during 56 games.Carrick then drove the net and deflected home Derek Grant’s pass midway through the second period for his second goal of the season.UP NEXTCoyotes: Host Seattle on Saturday night.Ducks: Host St. Louis on Sunday night.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports