NEW YORK (AP) — Taylor Swift’s fans know how to look for careful clues and Easter eggs in her lyrics and music videos, so anticipation is high as the pop star drops a short film going deeper into her romantic life on a fan favorite song.The “All Too Well: The Short Film,” premiering on Friday evening, has fans enthralled with her new version of her classic album, “Red,” originally released in 2012, which featured hits like “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together” and “22.”“This is all about what the fans have turned this song into,” Swift told The Associated Press at a fan screening in New York on Friday. “It was never a single, never had a video, it never had a visual element to it, but they pretty much created their own imaginary cinematic universe for it, so this is just me following through on what they started and what they told me they wanted.”ADVERTISEMENTSwift has been re-recording her first six albums because her original masters were sold by her prior label and she wanted to create new masters that she could own herself. “Red (Taylor’s Version)” was released Friday with an expanded 30 total songs, including duets with Ed Sheeran, Chris Stapleton and Phoebe Bridgers. Read more from EntertainmentBritney freed: Judge dissolves Spears' conservatorshipTaylor Swift fans revel in ‘All Too Well’ film lyrics, cluesReview: Broadway dreams loom large in 'Tick, Tick... BOOM!' Ex-'Apprentice' contestant Zervos drops suit against Trump70 minutes at Astroworld: A countdown to catastropheTaylor Swift fans revel in ‘All Too Well’ film lyrics, cluesReview: Broadway dreams loom large in 'Tick, Tick... BOOM!' Ex-'Apprentice' contestant Zervos drops suit against Trump70 minutes at Astroworld: A countdown to catastropheTaylor Swift fans revel in ‘All Too Well’ film lyrics, cluesReview: Broadway dreams loom large in 'Tick, Tick... BOOM!' Ex-'Apprentice' contestant Zervos drops suit against Trump70 minutes at Astroworld: A countdown to catastrophe“I’m getting to look back on this music and just see music and see art and see experiences I’ve had in concerts,” said Swift of re-recording her music. “It was mine and now it’s really shared between me and the fans and that’s what I have really taken away from this experience.”The new 10-minute long version of “All Too Well,” which has been a fan favorite, was a top trending item Friday on Twitter, with fans reveling in the juicy details of the additional lyrics.Although Swift hasn’t talked about who the song is about, Swiftie sleuths have targeted actor Jake Gyllenhaal as the likely beau that broke her heart.The short film stars actors Dylan O’Brien and Sadie Sink as the couple, with Swift both acting in and writing-directing the 35mm film.