Nonfiction 1. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 2. The Real Anthony Fauci by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., narrated by Bruce Wagner (Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.) 3. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio) 4. I Am Mine by Eddie Vedder, performed by the author (Audible Originals)5. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 6. God Bless This Mess by Hannah Brown, narrated by the author (HarperAudio) 7. The 1619 Project by Nikole Hannah-Jones, The New York Times Magazine, Caitlin Roper - editor, Ilena Silverman - editor and Jake Silverstein - editor, narrated by Nikole Hannah-Jones and Full Cast (Random House Audio)8. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)9. Betrayal by Jonathan Karl, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)ADVERTISEMENT10. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)Fiction1. Go Tell the Bees That I Am Gone by Diana Gabaldon, narrated by Davina Porter (Recorded Books Inc.)2. Cytonic by Brandon Sanderson, performed by Suzy Jackson (Audible Studios)3. The Guilty by James Patterson and Duane Swierczynski, performed by John Lithgow, Bryce Dallas Howard, Peter Gallagher, Aldis Hodge, Corey Stoll and Marsha Stephanie Blake (Audible Originals) 4. The Becoming by Nora Roberts, narrated by Barrie Kreinik (Macmillan Audio)5. The Eye of the World by Robert Jordan, narrated by Kate Reading and Michael Kramer (Macmillan Audio)6. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, Ilyana Kadushin, Byron Jennings, David R. Gordon, Jason Culp, Kent Broadhurst, Oliver Wyman, Patricia Kilgarriff, and Scott Sowers (Macmillan Audio)7. Soulbrand by Andrew Rowe, narrated by Nick Podehl (Podium Audio)8. The Judge’s List by John Grisham, narrated by Mary-Louise Parker and the author (Random House Audio) 9. Fear No Evil by James Patterson, narrated by Cary Hite (Little, Brown & Company) 10. An Ambush of Widows by Jeff Abbott, narrated by Christine Lakin (Grand Central Publishing)