Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Infrastructure bill-PCR vs. Antigen-Paul McCartney’s ‘The Lyrics’-------STORIES:Do flies really throw up on your food when they land on it?ADVERTISEMENTSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  A fly does some of its digesting outside its body before it even eats any food. 806 words. By Ravindra Palavalli-Nettimi, Florida International University and Jamie Theobald, Florida International UniversityWhat Paul McCartney’s ‘The Lyrics’ can teach us about harnessing our creativityCOMMENTARY The ‘Eureka!’ moment is a myth – an altogether naïve and fanciful account of innovation. 982 words. By Edward Wasserman, University of IowaBridges, bike lanes, electric car chargers and more: 5 essential reads on the infrastructure billCOMMENTARY What will the US$1.2 trillion infrastructure bill pay for? Here are some of the things it will help build, fix or remove. 889 words. By How one atheist laid the foundation of contemporary Hindu nationalismRELIGION A scholar on South Asian affairs traces the growth of Hindu nationalism, started by an atheist anti-colonial revolutionary, to the one adopted under Modi’s government. 892 words. By Saba Sattar, The Institute of World PoliticsWhat’s the difference between a PCR and antigen COVID-19 test? A molecular biologist explainsCOMMENTARY The two types of COVID-19 tests – antigen and PCR – work in very different ways, which is why one is fast but less accurate and the other is slow and precise. 944 words. By Nathaniel Hafer, UMass Chan Medical SchoolADVERTISEMENTCongress passes $1T infrastructure bill – but how does the government go about spending that much money?COMMENTARY The government uses a process called public procurement. A professor of public policy explains how the process works and how it is increasing used to achieve social goals. 958 words. By Ana Maria Dimand, Boise State UniversityEast Coast flooding is a reminder that sea level is rising as the climate warms – here’s why the ocean is pouring in more oftenCOMMENTARY Climate change is making ocean levels rise in two ways. It’s a problem that will endure even after the world stabilizes and slashes greenhouse gas pollution. 746 words. By Jianjun Yin, University of ArizonaSuburban voters responded to GOP culture war pitch in Virginia governor’s race, and showed all politics are now nationalCOMMENTARY Glenn Youngkin, the newly elected Virginia governor, just gave the GOP a blueprint on how to win local elections with a national message – and without embracing Trump in public 716 words. By Athena M. King, Old Dominion UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.