Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Musk-Chickenpox-Facebook-------STORIES:The federal poverty line struggles to capture the economic hardship that half of Americans faceADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Millions of Americans struggle to pay their bills each month, despite earning wages well above the federal poverty line and holding multiple jobs. 941 words. By Celine-Marie Pascale, American University3 ways Congress could hold Facebook accountable for its actionsCOMMENTARY Pressure is mounting on Congress to take action on Facebook. Our panel of experts offers their top priorities: user control of data, banking-like oversight and resources to close the digital divide. 865 words. By Anjana Susarla, Michigan State University; Bhaskar Chakravorti, Tufts University, and Ryan Calo, University of WashingtonShould Elon Musk try to solve the problem of world hunger with $6 billion? 5 questions answeredCOMMENTARY Combining the UN’s expertise and global reach with Musk’s wealth and revolutionary problem-solving could make a difference, a world hunger expert argues. 993 words. By Jessica Eise, The University of Texas at San AntonioInvestors who trust ESG funds for a positive impact have a crucial blind spot, and it puts the $35 trillion industry’s promises in doubtCOMMENTARY Supply chain analysts see a major flaw in how ratings agencies measure companies’ environmental, social and governance risks. 1029 words. By Tinglong Dai, Johns Hopkins University and Christopher S. Tang, University of California, Los AngelesADVERTISEMENTOn Twitter, fossil fuel companies’ climate misinformation is subtle – here’s what I’m seeing during COP26COMMENTARY Misinformation about climate change has been spreading in other ways, and social media companies have been reluctant to stop it. 954 words. By Jill Hopke, DePaul UniversityHow parents can foster ‘positive creativity’ in kids to make the world a better placeCOMMENTARY Parents often want their kids to be creative. But while creativity has many benefits, it can also be used for harm. Here’s how to teach kids to harness their imagination for the common good. 753 words. By Sareh Karami, Mississippi State University; Mehdi Ghahremani, Mississippi State University, and Robert Sternberg, Cornell UniversityBetty Crocker turns 100 – why generations of American women connected with a fictional characterCOMMENTARY She never ages. Her visage morphs. And yet women used to write letters to this brainchild of advertising executives, a cultural icon who still looms large in the nation’s imagination. 1077 words. By Elizabeth A. Blake, Clark UniversityWhat the world can learn from the Buddhist concept loving-kindnessRELIGION On World Kindness Day, a scholar of Buddhist studies explains its idea of compassion and the diverse ways to think about and express kindness. 717 words. By Brooke Schedneck, Rhodes CollegeThe chickenpox virus has a fascinating evolutionary history that continues to affect peoples’ health todayCOMMENTARY Chickenpox has largely disappeared from the public’s memory thanks to a highly effective vaccine. But the virus’s clever life cycle allows it to reappear in later adulthood in the form of shingles. 1335 words. By Patricia L. Foster, Indiana UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.