LOS ANGELES (AP) — Paul George scored 34 points, hitting 12 of 13 free throws, and the Los Angeles Clippers defeated the San Antonio Spurs 106-92 on Tuesday night.Reggie Jackson overcame a poor start and finished with 21 points to help the Clippers bounce back after their seven-game winning streak ended on Sunday.Dejounte Murray narrowly missed his second triple-double since Sunday, leading the Spurs with 26 points, 12 rebounds and nine assists.Derrick White added 19 points and Drew Eubanks had 10 rebounds in the Spurs’ third straight loss.Rookie Brandon Boston Jr. scored the Clippers’ first six points of the fourth before Eric Bledsoe’s steal and layup pushed their lead to 18 points.The young Spurs kept at it and cut their deficit to 91-82.Jackson hit consecutive 3-pointers and George scored for a 99-82 lead. Doug McDermott and Keldon Johnson made back-to-back 3-pointers that again drew the Spurs within nine. Boston scored the Clippers’ final five points and finished with 13 to close out the game. ADVERTISEMENTWhite’s basket early in the third gave the Spurs their first lead since the opening quarter. The teams traded baskets before Thaddeus Young scored to tie it at 69-all.From there, the Clippers outscored the Spurs 14-2 to go into the fourth leading 83-71. After struggling in the first half, Jackson exploded for a quick seven points, a blocked shot and fed Isaiah Hartenstein for a one-handed jam.The Clippers saw most of their 12-point lead disappear by halftime. The Spurs closed the second on a 13-5 run, including nine by Murray, to trail 57-53 at the break.TIP-INSSpurs: Dropped to 2-6 on the road. ... Jock Landale remains in the league’s health and safety protocols. ... Jakob Poeltl could return Thursday. He’s getting his fitness back after being in the health and safety protocols.Clippers: F/G Terance Mann sat out with a left ankle sprain. ... Justise Winslow was out for personal reasons.UP NEXTSpurs: Visit Minnesota on Thursday to finish a three-game trip.Clippers: Visit Memphis on Thursday to open a two-game trip.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports