Nonfiction 1. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 2. The 1619 Project by Nikole Hannah-Jones, The New York Times Magazine, Caitlin Roper - editor, Ilena Silverman - editor and Jake Silverstein - editor, narrated by Nikole Hannah-Jones and Full Cast (Random House Audio)3. Betrayal by Jonathan Karl, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)4. I Am Mine by Eddie Vedder, performed by the author (Audible Originals)5. OMG WTF Does the Constitution Actually Say? by Ben Sheehan, narrated by Candice Renee and the author (Black Dog & Leventhal)6. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio) 7. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)8. The Verge by Patrick Wyman, narrated by the author (Twelve)9. The Real Anthony Fauci by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., narrated by Bruce Wagner (Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.)ADVERTISEMENT10. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)Fiction1. Mercy by David Baldacci, narrated by Brittany Pressley and Kyf Brewer (Grand Central Publishing)2. Star Wars: Thrawn Ascendancy (Book III: Lesser Evil) by Timothy Zahn, narrated by Marc Thompson (Random House Audio)3. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, Ilyana Kadushin, Byron Jennings, David R. Gordon, Jason Culp, Kent Broadhurst, Oliver Wyman, Patricia Kilgarriff, and Scott Sowers (Macmillan Audio)4. Footwizard by Terry Mancour, narrated by John Lee (Podium Audio)5. War and Peace by Leo Tolstoy, performed by Thandiwe Newton (Audible Studios)6. The Guilty by James Patterson and Duane Swierczynski, peformed by John Lithgow, Bryce Dallas Howard, Peter Gallagher, Aldis Hodge, Corey Stoll and Marsha Stephanie Blake (Audible Originals) 7. The Judge’s List by John Grisham, narrated by Mary-Louise Parker and the author (Random House Audio) 8. Trusting Cassidy by Susan Stoker, narrated by Lucy Rivers (Brilliance Audio)9. The Sisters by Dervla McTiernan, performed by Aoife McMahon (Audible Originals) 10. The Dark Hours by Michael Connelly, narrated by Titus Welliver and Christine Lakin (Little, Brown & Company)