Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Rittenhouse-Project Veritas-Turkey!-------STORIES:How the pandemic helped spread fentanyl across the US and drive opioid overdose deaths to a grim new highADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The number of fatal drug overdoses in the US over a 12-month period has surpassed 100,000 for the first time. Fentanyl is the main driver of the spike in deaths. 642 words. By Andrew Kolodny, Brandeis UniversityProject Veritas and the mainstream media: Strange allies in the fight to protect press freedomCOMMENTARY The mainstream media are holding their collective noses and supporting Project Veritas after its founder’s home was raided by the FBI. It’s a matter of principle and self-preservation. 1147 words. By Jane E Kirtley, University of MinnesotaAdoptees nationwide may soon gain access to their original birth certificatesCOMMENTARY Adopted children face a slew of legal challenges in trying to obtain their original birth certificates. Lawmakers across the country are increasingly granting more access as a basic human right. 979 words. By Andrea Ross, University of California, DavisInfrastructure law’s digital equity goals are key to smart cities that work for everyoneCOMMENTARY Smart cities’ focus on technology has made the digital divide worse, not better. The new infrastructure law could change that. 720 words. By Gregory Porumbescu, Rutgers University - Newark Americans support climate change policies, especially those that give them incentives and clean up the energy supplyADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY A set of studies found people prefer incentives to disincentives, especially for individuals but also for businesses. They have views on clean energy and efficiency, too. 761 words. By Janet K. Swim, Penn State and Nathaniel Geiger, Indiana UniversityWhy are barns painted red?COMMENTARY Barns are practical buildings, designed to safeguard farm animals and equipment. Why are so many of them painted to stand out from the landscape? 578 words. By Thomas Durant Visser, University of VermontThe first Thanksgiving is a key chapter in America’s origin story – but what happened in Virginia four months later mattered much moreCOMMENTARY The communion between Native Americans and the Pilgrims makes for a compelling narrative. But it masks the suspicions and brewing violence that were far more representative of the era. 1177 words. By Peter C. Mancall, USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and SciencesTalking turkey! How the Thanksgiving bird got its name (and then lent it to film flops)COMMENTARY From ‘turkey trot’ to ‘going cold turkey,’ the centerpiece to many Thanksgiving dinners has lent its name to many things. But it also borrowed its name from elsewhere. 969 words. By Jack Lynch, Rutgers University - Newark Rittenhouse verdict flies in the face of legal standards for self-defenseCOMMENTARY In its decision, the Wisconsin jury believed Kyle Rittenhouse acted in self-defense – not recklessness, as prosecutors alleged – when he shot three people, two fatally. 1003 words. By Ronald Sullivan, Harvard Law SchoolMeet the person responsible for keeping inflation from spiraling out of control – without tanking the economyCOMMENTARY Biden is expected to soon decide whether to keep Jerome Powell as Federal Reserve chair or name a replacement. The nominee will have more influence on the trajectory of inflation than anyone else. 1264 words. By Veronika Dolar, SUNY Old WestburyUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.