ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — New Mexico is opening access to vaccine booster shots to all adults, responding to surging rates of infection that state health officials are partly linking to waning immunity among the vaccinated. Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham on Friday signed an executive order expanding eligibility for COVID-19 booster shots, joining Colorado and California. The governor also extended the public health order, meaning masks must still be worn in all public indoor spaces. State data shows more than 28% of coronavirus infections confirmed over the last four weeks in New Mexico have been among the vaccinated. Still, state health officials touted the vaccines as a way to prevent serious illness or death.Health and Human Services Secretary Dr. David Scrase said in a statement Friday that case counts are significant, spread rates are far too high and that the delta variant is far more transmissible than previous variants. That combination has made New Mexico a high-risk setting, he said.ADVERTISEMENTScrase also pointed to New Mexico’s overburdened health care system, noting that some hospitals have enacted crisis standards of care. Under the designation, a hospital can delay non-medically necessary procedures so health care workers can focus on those patients who need emergency care.In Albuquerque, officials at Presbyterian Healthcare Services and University of New Mexico Health announced Thursday they were activating crisis standards of care, noting that it wasn’t really a shift in policy but rather a continuation of how they have been managing the crush of patients since last winter. While they are treating some COVID-19 patients, the two hospitals noted that the vast majority of beds are filled by people who either put off necessary care over the last year or are sick from other illnesses. They tried to reassure the public by saying they would not deny care to anyone having a medical emergency. Still, they asked for help in easing pressure on health care workers by encouraging people to wear masks, wash their hands, avoid gatherings and to get vaccinated.The situation was more dire in northwestern New Mexico, where one hospital was caring for 94 coronavirus patients on Friday, including 16 sustained by breathing machines. San Juan Regional Medical Center in Farmington is a 198-bed facility but was caring for 205 patients, said spokeswoman Laura Werbner.State and federal authorities last week sent in reinforcement to bolster medical staff and assistants. Hospital staff and local government officials held a virtual town-hall style meeting Wednesday to urge unvaccinated people to reconsider their options for coronavirus immunization.