BISMARCK, N.D. (AP) — A longtime lawmaker and retired grocer was chosen Wednesday to head an advisory board developing guidelines for in-state investments from North Dakota’s voter-approved oil tax savings account. Fessenden Republican Sen. Jerry Klein was elected chairman of the newly reconfigured Legacy and Budget Stabilization Fund Advisory Board, which GOP Rep. Keith Kempenich led for nearly a decade.Some lawmakers have criticized Kempenich, a rancher from Bowman, for allegedly delaying the implementation of bipartisan legislation approved in March aimed at creating a broader investment policy for the state’s Legacy fund. Kempenich and Klein told reporters implementing the legislation is time-consuming and complex. “Every effort is being made to move this legislation forward,” said Klein, who has served in the Senate since 1997. “No one is dragging their feet.”ADVERTISEMENTThe State Investment Board, which Lt. Gov. Brent Sanford leads, invests Legacy Fund money in a broad range of assets, including stocks, bonds and real estate. The legislation, sponsored by Bismarck Rep. Mike Nathe, required the board — with the advice of the advisory panel — to give preference to North Dakota companies and financial institutions to administer the in-state investments.BusinessExplainer: What caused Amazon's outage? Will there be more?Defense team rests in Elizabeth Holmes fraud trialSenate rejects Biden's vaccine mandate for businessesMacKenzie Scott won't say how much she's giving 'this time'Frustrated that the advisory board had not developed a clear policy for in-state investing, Nathe successfully pushed legislation during a special session this fall to change the board’s makeup and limit the chairman’s tenure to one year.“It was time for a new voice at the chairmanship, and (Klein) will keep these guys moving forward,” Nathe said Wednesday. “My problem is the timing. We should have started this six months ago and not in December.”The advisory panel previously had seven members, including four legislators. It now has 10 members, including six legislators, and the president of the state-owned Bank of North Dakota, insurance commissioner, state treasurer and tax commissioner.A motion to retain Kempenich as the panel’s chairman failed. Kempenich voted for himself. Nine members of panel — including Kempenich — then endorsed Klein as the new chairman. Klein voted against himself as chairman, having previously voted for Kempenich, who was named vice chair.Both will serve through June. After that, the chairman and vice chairman will serve for an entire year.Democratic Sen. Kathy Hogan of Fargo nominated Klein. She commended Kempenich on the job he had done, but said choosing Klein shows a “good faith effort to recognize a new stage in this committee.”Voters in 2010 endorsed a constitutional amendment that requires setting aside 30% of state tax revenues on oil and natural gas production in the Legacy Fund, which is valued at about $8.5 billion. It’s expected to earn about $500 million over the next two-year budget cycle.Backers of the legislation to provide more in-state investment from the Legacy Fund said only about 1% of the fund’s principal had been invested in North Dakota in the past.