Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Stephen Sondheim-Nonprofit diversity-Shuffling songs-------STORIES:Making a difference without millions – how Americans giveADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Stanford researcher Lucy Bernholz is re-imagining what philanthropy looks like and is trying to understand how average people create, fund and distribute shared social goods in the digital age. 654 words. By Diversity helps nonprofits accomplish more when staff from different backgrounds can connectCOMMENTARY When staff members learn how to acknowledge and talk about their social differences, nonprofits can get better at developing strategies, forming alliances and mobilizing people, a recent study found. 621 words. By Brad R. Fulton, Indiana UniversityStephen Sondheim’s ‘Assassins’ lays bare the bizarre role of guns in American cultureCOMMENTARY To the famous composer, the gun serves not as a tool of self-defense, but as an instrument of self-expression and self-realization. 1067 words. By Jennifer Tucker, Wesleyan University and Peter Rutland, Wesleyan UniversityGrammy winner explains why Adele is right -- album tracks should not be shuffledCOMMENTARY Clicking ‘random’ on album tracks does the artist a disservice. It can also mean the listener is missing out, too. 1123 words. By Jose V Ruiz-Resto, University of FloridaCalifornia’s water supplies are in trouble as climate change worsens natural dry spells, especially in the Sierra NevadaADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The State Water Project cut its initial allocations for water agencies to 0% for 2022. A California water expert explains why. 1040 words. By Roger Bales, University of California, MercedIn the fight against climate change, China is doing more than you think – but still not enoughCOMMENTARY China has a tendency to underpromise so it can overdeliver. The UN climate summit in Glasgow may have been the crossroad where it chose a more sustainable path. 1095 words. By Phillip Stalley, DePaul UniversityHow Christmas became an American holiday tradition, with a Santa Claus, gifts and a treeRELIGION Christmas was popularized in the American culture during the American Civil War, when Harper’s Weekly featured the image of Santa Claus visiting the Union Army on its front page. 927 words. By Thomas Adam, University of ArkansasModern-day culture wars are playing out on historic tours of slaveholding plantationsCOMMENTARY The romanticized notions of Southern gentility are increasingly at odds with historical reality as the lives, culture and contributions of the enslaved are becoming integral on tours of plantations. 835 words. By Kelley Fanto Deetz, University of California, BerkeleyUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.