ERIE, Pa. (AP) — Edward Kranz always had artistic tendencies.Since he was a kid growing up in Erie, he would draw, paint and play guitar.Kranz, now 53, is also a skilled tradesman. He worked for years for his father’s construction company, which recently helped Erie-based Amerail Systems tackle exterior renovations at hotels across the country.He went on to work for more than a decade as a mechanic and an analyst for the Boeing Company in Everett, Washington.It might be fitting if that description makes him sound like something of a Renaissance man.After returning to Erie a few years ago, he launched a new business that recalls the spirit of the Renaissance, often described as the rebirth of science and culture between 1400 and 1600.It was early in that span that Johannes Gutenberg invented the mechanical, moveable-type printing press. That invention made possible the publication and mass distribution of what was known as the Gutenberg Bible.ADVERTISEMENTKranz is a bookbinder and the owner of Kranz Books Bindery, which he operates from the first floor of his home on Trask Avenue.After Boeing eliminated his position a few years ago, Kranz began to shift his attentions to the bookbinder’s art that had been his hobby for years.BusinessFlight cancellations drag on as airlines short-staffedRussian court slaps Google, Meta with massive finesOmicron is latest blow to pandemic-weary front-line workersUS to lift omicron-linked travel ban on southern AfricaIt is no longer a hobby.Restoring old books and producing new ones — mostly journals and wedding albums — is how he makes his living.There is no mistaking his two-story home for a factory. There is nothing high-speed about the assembly process. Handcrafted wooden benches perched on steel legs occupy what might normally be the living room. Indirect light bathes the space in a warm glow.His tools — including French-style backing hammers, hefty steel book presses and one-of-a-kind paper folders made from pieces of bone — are reminders that Kranz is in the business of preserving history.That desire to preserve the past is what got Kranz started.Some years ago, he acquired a tattered set of “Letters From Hell,” a two-volume Christian novel published in 1866.Kranz began to restore the book only to realize he was in over his head. He decided to set it aside until he mastered his craft. He’s working on it again now.In his main workspace, Kranz gently pulls out a Nuremberg Bible, printed in 1770, that he has been working to restore, one page at a time.He paid $200 for it but expects it will eventually be worth $2,000 or more. The book, though, is a pet project and Kranz said he will be happy to have it on his shelf.Sometimes the history takes a more personal form. Kranz said that family Bibles, published between the early 1900s and the 1950s, are among his most common projects. The value, he said, comes from the personal connection, often including a few pages of handwritten family history in the back of many of those volumes.ADVERTISEMENTReturning a book to the client “feels really good,” he said. “One, I feel I did a good job. Second, they now have a part of their family history they can continue down the line. So, I kind of feel like I’m a part of their family now.” In another room off the kitchen, Kranz is working not to preserve history, but to recreate it in a project that goes back to the earliest days of the printed word.Kranz is in the midst of his second two-volume recreation of the Gutenberg Bible, which was printed in Latin in the mid-1450s.Another set, which uses scanned pages of the original, was produced in his shop as he worked alongside veteran bookbinder Michael Chrisman of Ohio.While those volumes, valued at $6,500, are expected to be delivered to a customer soon, Kranz hopes to sell the second set for about $8,500.This one will feature a hand-tooled binding made from a particular type of pigskin leather that hasn’t been in common use for 500 years. Like the first set, the covers of these volumes are made from thin slabs of stained red oak that encase hand-sewn pages.Kranz sews the top of a book’s spine with alternating blue-and-gold thread. This book is a personal project Kranz is doing in order to expand specific skills.Getting startedAn early love of books might have helped steer Kranz to his current vocation.“I have always been into books,” he said. “I used to like to read when I was younger.”Later he would read out of a need for information.He remembers well his Volkswagen Beetle with the blown engine and the “Idiot’s Guide” to repairs that he found at the store. Within a couple of weeks, he had rebuilt the Beetle’s engine by following the book’s instructions.“Books had value to me,” he said. “I could learn things from them.”Clients have different reasons for bringing their books to be restored. For some, especially the owners of old family Bibles, it is rebuilding that link to their family’s past.Often, he said, a book’s value has little to do with the actual price.Kranz said one of his most meaningful restoration projects was repairing an inexpensive Bible his wife’s stepfather had received from Alcoholics Anonymous more than 30 years earlier.The Bible, filled with notes and signatures of people he had met at meetings over the years, was in sad shape. But it was also a cherished chronicle of the owner’s sobriety.“The AA Bibles are grossly cheap,” Kranz said. “They are meant to be disposable, but this book had a huge amount of personal value built into it.”Kranz said he put $400 to $500 worth of work and materials into that well-used Bible. “Of all the books I have done, this is the one I am most proud of,” Kranz said.Kranz, who depleted much of his savings to move back to Erie from Washington, is ever mindful of his capacity to make a living by binding and repairing books the old way.A whiteboard in one of the rooms of his shop provides a blueprint of what the next few months will look like, listing some of the projects he plans to work on. The work ahead includes Bibles and volumes of Erie County history.“I have a couple (projects) going at any given time,” he said.Kranz will also work to rebuild his supply of handbound journals that sell for $85 or so. He sells the journals, some bound with handmade paper, in an online Etsy shopBut the financial limitations are apparent.“Even if I deliver one book a week, that’s $150 to $500,” Kranz said. “What I am hoping is that I will get faster.”In short, Kranz isn’t getting rich, but he likes what he’s doing, preserving history and one old book at a time.Do it yourself:How to save a family Bible from age, wear, poor storage, sun“I am able to apply my artistic skills. I am able to apply manufacturing skills,” Kranz said. “The process is really a driving thing for me. Every book I touch is different.”Nearly all of them can be improved if not returned to their original glory, he said.“Unless the book is ashes,” he said, “there is usually something that can be done.”___Online:
https://bit.ly/33IUfBr