SEATTLE (AP) — Sidney Crosby, Jake Guentzel and the Pittsburgh Penguins didn’t take long to stagger the NHL’s newest franchise with an early onslaught.Crosby and Danton Heinen scored 25 seconds apart early in the first period, Guentzel extended his point streak to 13 games with two goals and an assist, and the Penguins routed the Seattle Kraken 6-1 on Monday night. Jeff Carter scored 1:47 into the game and Crosby followed with his fourth goal at 4:42 by finishing a shot from the blue line from Guentzel. Heinen scored on a wrist shot moments later to leave the expansion Kraken stunned. “We had a great start,” Crosby said. “Being able to get the lead early, I think they still stuck behind their team and supported them but I think it just takes the pressure off a bit when you’re playing in a building like this and be able to get a lead like that.”Seattle goalie Philipp Grubauer was pulled after Heinen’s goal and replaced by Joey Daccord. Grubauer faced four shots and three found the back of the net. ADVERTISEMENTSeattle coach Dave Hakstol said it was a disappointing effort coming off an impressive win over Edmonton last Friday. “It’s not an acceptable way for us to start the hockey game and play throughout the 60 minutes,” Hakstol said. “We all know that. We own that. I’m not going to explain more of it away. That’s the reality of it.”Guentzel scored his 14th goal of the season and Carter added his second of the game, both on odd-man rushes late in the second period. The goals came 23 seconds apart. Guentzel added his 15th at 8:28 of the third period and has five goals in the past two games after a hat trick Saturday in Vancouver. “He’s had some good runs but he’s just doing everything so well, finding different ways,” Crosby said. “Whether it’s going to the net, or you see his second goal tonight, that shot is perfect. He’s doing it all.”Crosby finished with two points and has 11 in the past six games. Heinen had his first three-point game of the season, adding two assists to go along with his seventh goal. Daccord made 24 saves for Seattle. Jordan Eberle scored his 12th of the season early in the second period, but it was a lackluster performance by the Kraken, who had been one of the hottest teams in the NHL. Seattle had won five of seven and earned 11 points during the stretch, but was handed its worst home loss to date. “That just can’t happen. It’s that simple,” Eberle said. “You get behind against them, it’s tough.” Pittsburgh goalie Casey DeSmith made 28 saves, and his stick saved a goal late in the second period. DeSmith was able to deflect Morgan Geekie’s pass with Jared McCann wide open at the back post. A little more than a minute later, Guentzel scored and a potential 3-2 game quickly became 5-1. It was the first victory of the season for DeSmith in his fifth start. “Mentally that was big for me to go out there and get a solid win,” he said. While Guentzel extended his point streak, there was a brief bit of concern after he took a shot from Adam Larsson off his hand late in the first period. Guentzel dropped his stick and immediately went to the bench. He returned for one more shift, but went back to the bench and to the locker room with about two minutes left in the period. Guentzel was back on the ice for his first shift of the second period. STREAKINGGuentzel’s run is the longest active point streak in the league and the third-longest this season behind Connor McDavid (17 games) and Troy Terry (16). Guentzel has 12 goals and seven assists during the streak. CARTER’S COMPANYCarter became the second player to record a multipoint game against all 32 teams, joining Derick Brassard. “Some weird goals tonight. I think both of mine I didn’t even shoot at the net,” Carter said. “But that’s the way it goes sometimes.”NOTESSeattle scratched F Colin Blackwell, F Kole Lind and D Haydn Fleury. Seattle also did not activate F Calle Jarnkrok from injured reserve. Jarnkrok was a game-time decision after missing the previous five games. Blackwell scored his second goal and Lind picked up his first career point with an assist last Friday against Edmonton. ... Pittsburgh scratched C Brian Boyle, RW Sam Lafferty and D Mark Friedman. UP NEXTPenguins: At Washington on Friday. Kraken: Host Winnipeg on Thursday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports