Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Jewish women-Mormon marriages-Prep schools-------STORIES:Vast majority of American workers like their jobs – even as a record number quit themADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The narrative of the Great Resignation is that workers hate their jobs and are desperate to quit. The data tells a somewhat different story. 929 words. By Scott Schieman, University of TorontoTornadoesBC-The Conversation for December 14, 10am, ADVISORYTornado-slammed parts of Kentucky face long recoveryIn the ruins of Mayfield, a search for hope in what's savedBeshear directs flags lowered to honor tornado victimsSmoke, heat and stress: A snapshot from Southern California of life in an altered climateCOMMENTARY Southern California is on the front line of climate change, and recent survey data shows that residents are feeling its effects in many ways. 865 words. By Kyla Thomas, USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and SciencesOrthodox Jewish women’s leadership is growing – and it’s not all about rabbisRELIGION Religious leadership roles for Orthodox Jewish women are expanding, including community scholars and guides on Jewish law. 1038 words. By Michal Raucher, Rutgers UniversityWhat partnership looks like in Mormon marriages is shifting – slowlyRELIGION LDS leaders still stress that men should ‘preside’ over their families. But in recent years, messages about marriage have stressed more equal partnership. 1099 words. By Caroline Kline, Claremont Graduate University‘Strangers in their own land’: Iraqi Yazidis and their plight, 7 years on from genocideRELIGION In 2019 a scholar visited the Iraqi Kurdistan, where Yazidis have been resettled. He explains their religious beliefs and their current conditions. 872 words. By Houman Oliaei, Brandeis UniversityADVERTISEMENTUS prep schools held student exchanges with elite Nazi academiesCOMMENTARY An international schoolboy exchange program was used by the Nazis to favorably influence public opinion of the Third Reich. One tool they used: student exchanges with American prep schools. 1013 words. By Helen Roche, Durham UniversityComic book introduces kids to key concepts and careers in cybersecurityCOMMENTARY A comic-based curriculum for after-school programs could hold the key to unlocking girls’ interest in careers in cybersecurity. 1053 words. By Kara Dawson, University of Florida and Pavlo Antonenko, University of FloridaBlocking an immune system molecule in mice may help prevent long-term disabilities after traumatic brain injurySCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  The molecule C1q has both protective and detrimental effects after traumatic brain injury. Blocking it after injury in mice restored normal brain rhythms during sleep and prevented epileptic spikes. 664 words. By Jeanne Paz, University of California, San FranciscoTornadoes and climate change: What a warming world means for deadly twisters and the type of storms that spawn themSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Climate models can’t see tornadoes yet, but they can recognize the conditions for tornadoes to form. An atmospheric scientist explains what that means for forecasting future risks. 865 words. By John Allen, Central Michigan UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.