Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Baby talk-Pregnancy apps-Political rage-------STORIES:Political rage: America survived a decade of anger in the 18th century – but can it now?ADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Like today, passions were strong and political discourse was inflamed in late 18th-century America. Angry mobs torched buildings. Virginians drank a toast to George Washington’s speedy death. 956 words. By Maurizio Valsania, Università di TorinoPregnancy apps and online spaces fail to support individuals grieving a pregnancy loss – here’s what to do about itSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  New research shows technologies like pregnancy apps do not account for pregnancy loss 72% of the time, causing real harm to users. 686 words. By Nazanin Andalibi, University of Michigan‘The Beatles: Get Back’ glosses over the band’s acrimonious endCOMMENTARY In their press rounds, director Peter Jackson and Paul McCartney have been eager to recast the legacy of the band’s final years. 1096 words. By Tim Riley, Emerson CollegeWhy do couples use baby talk with one another?COMMENTARY As many as two-thirds of couples do it. 409 words. By Ramesh Kaipa, Oklahoma State UniversityHow can scientists update coronavirus vaccines for omicron? A microbiologist answers 5 questions about how Moderna and Pfizer could rapidly adjust mRNA vaccinesADVERTISEMENTSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  The new omicron variant of coronavirus has a number of mutations that may require manufacturers to update vaccines. The unique attributes of mRNA vaccines make updating them fast and easy. 1023 words. By Deborah Fuller, University of WashingtonIs your state ready to handle the influx of federal funds for expanding broadband?COMMENTARY States have widely different track records on expanding broadband internet access. Here are the ones that could struggle to handle the federal funds coming their way. 925 words. By Brian Whitacre, Oklahoma State University and Christina Biedny, Oklahoma State UniversityHow a Supreme Court decision limiting access to abortion could harm the economy and women’s well-beingCOMMENTARY In past rulings, the court has acknowledged that there’s a connection between the ability of women to control their reproductive lives and the economic health of the nation. 1041 words. By Michele Gilman, University of BaltimoreUse of HIV prevention treatments is very low among Southern Black gay menCOMMENTARY This finding suggests public health efforts will have to address the treatment barriers these men face – like poverty or homophobia – to meet the nation’s goal of ending the HIV epidemic by 2030. 593 words. By Oluwafemi Atanda Adeagbo, University of South Carolina and Xiaoming Li, University of South CarolinaUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.