COLUMBIA, S.C. (AP) — Highly touted quarterback Spencer Rattler will try to restart his college career with South Carolina in a major acquisition for Gamecocks coach Shane Beamer.Rattler, who threw for 28 touchdowns as a redshirt freshman for Oklahoma in 2020 before losing his starting job with the Sooners this season, tweeted Monday night that he had committed to the Gamecocks. The post showed Rattler in a South Carolina uniform with the Gamecocks’ logo in the background with the words, “COMMITTED.” “Excited for the next chapter,” Rattler’s post said.South Carolina went 6-6 this year, its first season under Beamer, who spent three years at Oklahoma under former coach Lincoln Riley as assistant head coach for offense.The 6-foot-1 Rattler was considered a candidate for the Heisman Trophy before the 2021 season began. But Caleb Williams supplanted him as the starter, and Rattler said he was leaving the program when the year ended.ADVERTISEMENTRiley left the Sooners, too, taking the coaching job at Southern California.Rattler played in nine games this season, completing 140 of 187 passes for 1,483 yards, 11 touchdowns and five interceptions. He threw for 3,031 yards in 2020 as the Sooners finished 9-2.One of Rattler’s targets at Oklahoma, tight end Austin Stogner, also tweeted he was heading to South Carolina. Stogner’s post looked similar to Rattler’s, and added, “Let’s roll.” College footballEx-Oklahoma QB Rattler commits to South Carolina, BeamerPurdue Fort Wayne extends indoor mask rule until Jan. 31Injury leaves Wisconsin's Wilder unavailable for bowl gameDan Lanning says Oregon will methodically build title teamsStogner is 6-foot-6 junior from Plano, Texas, who had 14 catches for 166 yards and three touchdowns. His best season with the Sooners was in 2020 when he had 26 receptions for 422 yards and three TDs.___More AP college football: https://apnews.com/hub/college-football and https://twitter.com/AP_Top25. Sign up for the AP’s college football newsletter: https://apnews.com/cfbtop25