The Latest from Week 14 of the NFL (all times EST):12:15 p.m.The Dallas Cowboys will have a chance to cool off the surging Washington Football Team when longtime rivals meet at FedEx Field.Washington is riding a four-game winning streak that’s carried it to 6-6, two games behind first-place Dallas (8-4). The Football Team will be shorthanded along the defensive line. Montez Sweat and James Smith-Williams are both out after being placed on the COVID-19 list. Washington is already without star Chase Young, out for the season with a knee injury.Washington swept the season series from Dallas last year on its way to the NFC East title.In Cleveland, Baltimore will look to beat the Browns for the second time in three weeks. The Ravens edged Cleveland 16-10 in Baltimore late last month. A Ravens win would basically end any hope the Browns (6-6) have of capturing the AFC North. The Browns will be without their top two tight ends. David Njoku, who leads the team in yards receiving, is out after testing positive for COVID-19 earlier this week. Harrison Bryant will also miss the game with a high ankle sprain.The early window also features Kansas City (8-4) looking for a fifth straight win as it hosts Las Vegas (6-6). Tennessee (8-4) is at home against lowly Jacksonville (2-10) while Atlanta (5-7) travels to Carolina (5-7), Seattle (4-8) visits Houston (2-10) and New Orleans (5-7) faces the New York Jets (3-9).___11:55 a.m.The Kansas City Chiefs will be without L’Jarius Sneed when they play the Las Vegas Raiders on Sunday after the brother of their starting cornerback was killed in a stabbing in his hometown of Minden, Louisiana.T’Qarontarion Harrison, who was largely responsible for raising Sneed as a child, was killed during an incident Friday. Police in Minden say a woman, Angela Washington, has been charged with second-degree homicide.Sneed remained in Louisiana on Sunday to be with his family.Sneed has played 756 snaps this season, more than anybody else on the Chiefs defense, and his emergence as one of their best defensive backs has been crucial to a stunning turnaround on that side of the ball. Kansas City was historically inept on defense earlier this season but has held five straight opponents to 17 points or fewer. ___More AP NFL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL