BUFFALO, N.Y. (AP) — Alexandar Georgiev stopped 36 shots and the New York Rangers extended one of the best starts in team history with a 2-1 win over the Buffalo Sabres on Friday night.The Rangers hung on for the victory after a video review determined Buffalo defenseman Rasmus Dahlin was offside to negate Victor Olofsson’s goal with 57 seconds remaining. Mika Zibanejad got his first goal in 15 games and Alex Lafreniere also scored for the Rangers. Adam Fox assisted on both goals to take over the NHL points lead among defenseman with 29.The Rangers improved to 18-5-3, matching the franchise mark for most wins through 26 games. That record was set by the 1994 Stanley Cup champion team, which opened 18-6-2.The Sabres extended their winless skid to 0-5-1 but avoided being shutout in consecutive games thanks to Brett Murray’s goal. Minor-league callup Ukko-Pekka Lukkonen stopped 29 shots and has lost five straight since winning his NHL debut in April. ADVERTISEMENTPENGUINS 4, CAPITALS 2WASHINGTON (AP) — Danton Heinen, Brock McGinn and Kasperi Kapanen scored, Sidney Crosby had two assists and Pittsburgh held on to beat Washington. NHLRangers extend hot start with a 2-1 win over SabresPredators down Devils 3-2 behind Saros' 29 savesGeorgiev stops 36, Rangers hang on for 2-1 win over SabresSidney Crosby records 2 assists, Penguins beat Capitals 4-2The Penguins controlled the play for the first two periods before the Capitals mounted a comeback in the third. Pittsburgh extended its winning streak to three. Washington’s brief two-game streak came to an end. It was the 85th NHL meeting between Crosby and Alex Ovechkin. Evgeny Kuznetsov and Lars Eller scored for Washington.PREDATORS 3, DEVILS 2NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Juuse Saros made 29 saves and Nashville defeated New Jersey. The start was Saros’ first after missing the last two games with an undisclosed illness that the team stressed was not COVID-19. Roman Josi and Eeli Tolvanen scored in the second period, and Yakov Trenin added a goal in the third for Nashville, which has won four straight.New Jersey has lost five of seven, and seven of 10 overall. Mackenzie Blackwood stopped 24 shots, and Pavel Zacha and Yegor Sharangovich scored for the Devils. The Devils outshot Nashville 31-27.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports