Gov. Ned Lamont announced Tuesday he is calling up nearly 100 members of the Connecticut National Guard to help distribute 3 million COVID-19 test kits and 6 million N95 masks the state is making available to help blunt the growing surge of cases, fueled in part by the omicron variant.The Democrat announced Monday his administration procured about 3 million at-home kits, each containing two rapid tests, and would give them to cities and towns, public health departments, school districts and others over the coming weeks. Municipalities, he said, would begin receiving test kits and masks Thursday and allocation would be based on population. Local officials will determine how to distribute them.Some cities and towns are expected to begin handing out test kits as soon as Thursday, with some noting that masks may not be distributed until possibly next week. ADVERTISEMENT“As these at-home tests arrive in Connecticut over these next several days and weeks, the National Guard will help provide support on behalf of the state to ensure that they are distributed to each municipality and school district,” Lamont said in a statement. The soldiers and airmen will also help at testing and vaccine sites if needed.The activation is 100% federally funded.New Haven Mayor Justin Elicker said he expects his city of about 130,000 will receive 30,000 two-dose test kits. He said the city will provide some to nonprofit agencies that help vulnerable groups, including people who are homeless, and also distribute kits to residents at two mass distribution events Friday and Saturday.Elicker urged people returning to work or school and who will be exposed to others to pick up a test kit, which have been difficult to find due to high demand. N95 masks will also be distributed at those events, he said.Coronavirus pandemicAsian shares mostly slip amid lingering omicron worriesMexico says cruise ships with coronavirus cases can dockCoronavirus cases surge across Australia as omicron explodesNavajo Nation reports 19 new COVID-19 cases, no new deathsThe town of Rocky Hill, with a population of more than 20,000, announced it expects to receive 2,610 test kits for distribution beginning Thursday. A statement on the town’s website called it a “short-term, interim solution with a limited number of test kits ... given the increased travel over the holidays.”The town said COVID-19 tests will be limited to residents with an immediate need, such as if they believe they’ve been exposed or have been experiencing symptoms, and if they traveled over the holidays and have been experiencing symptoms. Up to two kits per car or person will be distributed at the town hall and the fire station on Thursday, Friday, and Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of next week.Some communities are planning drive-through pickups of kits and masks to help prevent further spread of the coronavirus.In Killingly, for example, tests will be available to motorists in the town hall parking lot on Friday, from 8 a.m. to 10 a.m. In Westport, residents are being asked to remain in their cars when they are handed two test kits at a distribution site planned Thursday at the Staples High School parking lot. As in many communities, proof of residency will be required by both towns.