DETROIT (AP) — Adam Erne scored the decisive goal in a shootout and the Detroit Red Wings won their fourth straight game by beating the Seattle Kraken 4-3 on Wednesday night.Detroit won the shootout 2-1, with Dylan Larkin also converting.Robby Fabbri, Vladislav Namestnikov and Lucas Raymond scored in regulation for the Red Wings. Ryan Donato had two goals and Vince Dunn scored the other for the Kraken.Thomas Greiss made 21 saves for Detroit in his 150th career victory. Seattle goalie Philipp Grubauer stopped 23 shots.The Red Wings took a 3-2 lead at 6:30 of the third period when Raymond, who leads NHL rookies with 10 goals and 22 points, spun around in the slot and fired the puck past Grubauer. Seattle tied it on Donato’s second goal of the game. He fired a sot from the right circle that eluded Greiss’ stick with 5:44 remaining.The Kraken played without their top two scorers, left wing Jaden Schwartz and right wing Jordan Eberle. Both were ruled out due to lower-body injuries.ADVERTISEMENTEach team scored twice in the second period.The Red Wings broke through with Fabbri’s power-play goal at 4:46. The Kraken evened the score at 10:44 on Dunn’s power-play shot from the point past a screened Greiss. Donato gave Seattle a 2-1 lead with just under four minutes left in the period after Detroit defenseman Jordan Oesterle slipped and lost the puck in his own zone. Namestnikov scored late in the period to tie it at 2. SHELVED Less than an hour before the game, the Red Wings announced forward Tyler Bertuzzi was placed in the NHL’s COVID-19 protocol. Bertuzzi, the team’s third-leading scorer with nine goals and nine assists in 20 games, is thought to be the NHL’s only unvaccinated player.Bertuzzi has missed three other Red Wings games played in Canada this season. He’s not allowed to cross the border due to his unvaccinated status. GAME NOTESSeattle placed goalie Chris Driedger and forward Calle Jornkrok on injured reserve. … Detroit D Nick Leddy appeared in his 800th career game. … Raymond was selected the league’s rookie of the month for November. He had five goals and seven assists in 14 games. … Detroit will visit Seattle on March 19.UP NEXTKraken: Host the Edmonton Oilers on Friday.Red Wings: Host the New York Islanders on Saturday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports