Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-World Aids Day-Hanukkah-Redistricting-------STORIES:How the US census led to the first data processing company 125 years ago – and kick-started America’s computing industryADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY As the country grew, each census required greater effort than the last. That problem led to the invention of the punched card – and the birth of an industry. 1004 words. By David Lindsay Roberts, Prince George’s Community CollegeCharting changes in a pathogen’s genome yields clues about its past and hints about its futureSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  After a nose swab tests positive for a virus or bacteria, scientists can use the sample’s genetic sequence to figure out where and when the pathogen emerged and how fast it’s changing. 962 words. By Claire Guinat, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich; Etthel Windels, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, and Sarah Nadeau, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology ZurichAaron Rodgers dropped the ball on critical thinking – with a little practice you can do betterSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Critical thinking means seeking out new information – especially facts that might run contrary to what you believe – and being willing to change your mind. And it’s a teachable skill. 1262 words. By Joe Árvai, USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and SciencesIndependent commissions can ditch partisanship and make redistricting fairer to votersCOMMENTARY As states devise new electoral district maps, some have adopted independent commissions to ensure fairness in that process. Do they deliver? 1111 words. By Jon X. Eguia, Michigan State University and Christian Cox, Yale UniversityADVERTISEMENTSmall-group learning can mitigate the effects of school closures – but only if teachers use it wellCOMMENTARY Small-group learning activities can help students build social skills while enhancing academic achievement. This is particularly important for kids who face bullying or discrimination. 732 words. By Mark J. Van Ryzin, University of OregonHIV prevention pill PrEP is now free under most insurance plans – but the latest challenge to the Affordable Care Act puts this benefit at riskCOMMENTARY World AIDS Day on Dec. 1 this year comes at a time when a key step to removing financial barriers to PrEP access in the U.S. faces legal challenges. 997 words. By Paul Shafer, Boston University and Kristefer Stojanovski, Tulane UniversityBiden brings a menorah lighting back to the White House, rededicating a Hanukkah tradition from the 20th centuryRELIGION Every president since Jimmy Carter has recognized Hanukkah with a special menorah lighting ceremony. 1034 words. By Jonathan D. Sarna, Brandeis UniversityThis Hanukkah, learn about the holiday’s forgotten heroes: WomenRELIGION The Jewish festival of Hanukkah, which in 2021 began on Nov. 28, focuses on the story of the Maccabees. But women are also heroes in stories about that era, including Judith and Hannah. 931 words. By Alan Avery-Peck, College of the Holy CrossWho’s in? Who’s out? The ethics of COVID-19 travel rulesCOMMENTARY Should countries require COVID-19 vaccination for entry while vaccines remain globally scarce? 1195 words. By Nancy S. Jecker, University of Washington and Caesar Atuire, University of GhanaUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.