BOSTON (AP) — Steven Stamkos scored at 1:31 of overtime, and the Tampa Bay Lighting bounced back after blowing a two-goal lead on Saturday night, beating the Boston Bruins 3-2.Taylor Raddysh had his first career goal, a short-handed score in the first period, and Ondrej Palat also scored for the defending Stanley Cup champions. Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 37 shots, and Stamkos recorded a point for the sixth straight game. Charlie Coyle and Curtis Lazar scored after the Bruins fell behind 2-0 early in the second period. Jeremy Swayman made 22 saves for the Bruins, who outshot the Lightning 39-25.Coming off a shutout against Nashville -- his third in 22 career NHL games -- Swayman let Tampa Bay take an early lead when he got caught spread-eagled on Raddysh’s short-handed rush late in the first period. The Lightning took a 2-0 lead early in the second, capitalizing after a Boston possession in which they hit iron twice -- once on a David Pastrnak shot off the crossbar and again when Brandon Carlo got a shot past the goalie but it rolled off the post and away. On the next faceoff, Palat shot it off Tomas Nosek’s skate and past Swayman.ADVERTISEMENTThe Bruins finally broke through against Vasilevskiy late in the second, when Erik Haula slid it between his legs backwards to Coyle in front of the net. In the third, Lazar picked up the puck at the left circle, skated it to the net and then backhanded it off the top shelf on the goalie’s glove side. Top Bruins defenseman Charlie McAvoy was scratched from the game with a non-COVID illness. The Bruins recalled defenseman Jack Ahcan, along with forward Oskar Steen, from Providence of the AHL earlier in the day.The Bruins were also without coach Bruce Cassidy, who was placed in the league’s COVID-19 protocol on Tuesday. Assistant Joe Sacco has run the bench the last three games. UP NEXTLightning: At Philadelphia on Sunday night. Bruins: At Vancouver on Wednesday night. ___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports