Nonfiction 1. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 4. The Real Anthony Fauci by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., narrated by Bruce Wagner (Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.) 5. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)6. I Am Mine by Eddie Vedder, performed by the author (Audible Original) 7. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 8. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)9. 12 Rules for Life by Jordan B. Peterson and Norman Doidge, MD - foreword, narrated by Jordan B. Peterson (Random House Canada)10. The 1619 Project by Nikole Hannah-Jones, The New York Times Magazine, Caitlin Roper - editor, Ilena Silverman - editor and Jake Silverstein - editor, narrated by Nikole Hannah-Jones and Full Cast (Random House Audio)ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)EntertainmentDenzel Washington on directing: 'I’m still learning'Review: 'Matrix Resurrections' rewires its programmingQ&A: Leonardo DiCaprio and Adam McKay dare you to look upReview: 'A Journal for Jordan' is a tear-jerker from Denzel2. The One Night by Meghan Quinn, narrated by Teddy Hamilton and Laurie West (Brilliance Audio)3. Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty, narrated by Caroline Lee (Macmillan Audio)4. The Best Worst Christmas by Kate Forster, performed by Rachael Tidd (Audible Originals)5. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, Ilyana Kadushin, Byron Jennings, David R. Gordon, Jason Culp, Kent Broadhurst, Oliver Wyman, Patricia Kilgarriff, and Scott Sowers (Macmillan Audio)6. There’s Something About Merry by Codi Hall, performed by CJ Bloom and Lee Samuels (Audible Originals)7. The Eye of the World by Robert Jordan, narrated by Kate Reading and Michael Kramer (Macmillan Audio)8. The Judge’s List by John Grisham, narrated by Mary-Louise Parker and the author (Random House Audio)9. Ghost Child by Caroline Overington, performed by Tai Hara and Zindzi Okenyo (Audible Studios)10. Fallout by Craig Alanson, narrated by R.C. Bray (Podium Audio)