DENVER (AP) — P.J. Washington hit three big 3-pointers down the stretch, Kelly Oubre Jr. scored 14 of his 23 points in the fourth quarter and Charlotte Hornets overcame a 19-point deficit to beat the Denver Nuggets 115-107 on Thursday night.Will Barton’s step-back shot gave the Nuggets a 90-71 advantage late in the third before the Hornets rallied. Washington tied it at 99 on a 3-pointer with 5:30 remaining and gave the Hornets the lead for good on another 3 with 1:20 left. Jalen McDaniels had a dunk and Ish Smith a 3-pointer to seal help the Hornets end a six-game trip with a 2-4 mark.The comeback overshadowed a big night from reigning NVP Nikola Jokic, who had 29 points and 21 rebounds — one away from tying his career high. Oubre fueled the run with big bucket after big bucket in the final quarter, including a four-point play. Terry Rozier added 17 points and Miles Bridges and LaMelo Ball each had 16.ADVERTISEMENTOn Wednesday night in Oklahoma City, Nuggets coach Michael Malone wasn’t pleased with his starters and didn’t play them in the fourth quarter in a 108-94 loss.In this game, he inserted starters to try to gain back control, but they couldn’t. The Nuggets drop to 1-5 on the second night of a back-to-back.NBAMiddleton, Bucks top Mavs 102-95 with pair of superstars outNBA-leading Suns win 5th straight, beating Thunder 113-101Booker, Johnson help NBA-leading Suns beat Thunder 113-101Mitchell scores 28, Jazz ease past Timberwolves 128-116Hornets center Mason Plumlee knows Jokic well, spending plenty of time defending him in practice while playing for the Nuggets from 2016-20. “I said, ‘What’s the secret?’” Hornets coach James Borrego cracked. “(Plumlee) knows all the little tricks.” Jokic had 16 rebounds in the first half. TIP-INSHornets: F Cody Martin was ruled out for a third straight game (health and safety protocols). ... Washington had 13.Nuggets: F Aaron Gordon didn’t play (left hamstring soreness). ... G Facundo Campazzo picked up a technical foul in the first quarter. He had 12 points. ... Austin Rivers, Jeff Green, Vlatko Cancar and Will Barton all had 11 points.ALLEY-OOP All alone on a fast break in the first quarter, Rozier  lobbed a pass off the backboard to Bridges for an easy slam. Rozier later had a nifty pass to McDaniels for an alley-oop dunk.CHILE RECEPTIONWhile spending a few days in Denver, Borrego said he ate his fill of green chile.“Hatch green chile — it just gets the heart pumping,” he said. “Gets the mind working. It calms your spirit and gets you ready to move on.”BALL’S GAMECount Malone as a fan of Ball’s play.“He’s one of those guys that can really hurt you with his scoring, his shooting, his downhill drives, but also his playmaking,” Malone said. “That’s why he’s a complete player, and one of the more exciting young players in the league.”UP NEXTHornets: Host Houston on Monday night.Nuggets: At Los Angeles Clippers on Sunday night.___More AP NBA coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NBA and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports