PHILADELPHIA (AP) — Cam Atkinson had three goals and an assist to lead the Philadelphia Flyers to a 6-1 victory over the New Jersey Devils on Tuesday night.Travis Sanheim and Oskar Lindblom each had a goal and an assist, and Justin Braun also scored for the Flyers, who won their third game in a row after losing 10 straight. Philadelphia improved to 3-2 under interim coach Mike Yeo, who took over Dec. 6 when Alain Vigneault was fired. P.K. Subban scored for the Devils, who have lost three straight and seven of eight. New Jersey was without captain Nico Hischier and top defenseman Ryan Graves, who each missed a second straight game due to COVID-19 protocols.Atkinson upped his team-leading total to 12 goals this season.GOLDEN KNIGHTS 4, BRUINS BOSTON (AP) — Max Pacioretty scored — twice — in his seventh straight game to lead Vegas over COVID-depleted Boston.ADVERTISEMENTRobin Lehner made 23 saves for the Golden Knights, who won for the fifth time in six games. Shea Theodore also scored for Vegas, and Jonathan Marchessault had a goal with 0.6 seconds left in the first period to send the Bruins to their locker room to the boos of the hometown crowd. NHLRed Wings edge Islanders 2-1 to end 3-game losing streakPacioretty scores twice, Vegas beats depleted Bruins 4-1 Atkinson's hat trick leads Flyers to 6-1 victory over DevilsSenators hand Panthers worst home loss since 2013, 8-2Hours after the Bruins put leading scorer Brad Marchand in the COVID-19 protocol, and one day after coach Bruce Cassidy returned from his positive test, the Bruins lost snapped a two-game winning streak. Patrice Bergeron scored 21 seconds in the third period and Jeremy Swayman stopped 21 shots. SENATORS 8, PANTHERS 2SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — Josh Norris scored two goals and Anton Forsberg made 33 saves to lift Ottawa over Florida.Nick Brown scored two late power-play goals, and Drake Batherson had a goal and two assists. Tim Stutzle, Dylan Gambrell and Austin Watson also scored for Ottawa. Connor Brown had three assists.Sam Reinhart and Jonathan Huberdeau scored for the Panthers, who lost at home for the second time this season. The Senators have won five of six.Florida goaltender Spencer Knight gave up a career-worst eight goals on 38 shots.It was the Panthers’ worst home loss since falling 7-1 to Philadelphia on Jan. 26, 2013, and their worst overall since a 6-0 beating at Calgary on Jan. 13, 2016.LIGHTNING 3, KINGS 2, OTTAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Mathieu Joseph scored with 1:35 left in overtime to give Tampa Bay a win over Los Angeles.Tampa Bay’s Andrei Vasilevskiy made 28 saves to win his 62nd game in 2021 regular-season and playoff games, tying Marc-Andre Fleury’s 2009 NHL record for a calendar year set with Pittsburgh.Victor Hedman and Taylor Raddysh also scored for the Lightning. Steven Stamkos had an assist and moved within a point of becoming the 118th player to reach 900 points. Drew Doughty and Viktor Arvidsson scored, and Jonathan Quick stopped 27 shots for the Kings.PENGUINS 5, CANADIENS 2ADVERTISEMENTPITTSBURGH (AP) — Evan Rodrigues scored his ninth goal of the season and added two assists to lead Pittsburgh over reeling Montreal.Kasperi Kapanen, Mike Matheson, Brian Dumoulin and Brian Boyle also scored for Pittsburgh, which won its fifth straight. Tristan Jarry finished with 28 saves to improve to 8-1-1 in his last 10 starts. Kris Letang picked up an assist to become the seventh active defenseman and 43rd all-time to reach the 600-point plateau. Sidney Crosby’s two assists marked the 400th multipoint game of his career.Jesse Ylonen scored the first goal of his career for Montreal, which lost its seventh straight. Jonathan Drouin added his fifth of the season and Jake Allen stopped 26 shots.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports