Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Disasters-Mormons-Nurses-------STORIES:In polygamous communities, deep roots of distrust shape vaccine hesitancyADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Fear of prosecution and a history of distrust toward the government have contributed to some fundamentalist groups’ views of medicine. 776 words. By Cristina Rosetti, Claremont McKenna CollegeBusinessHarris unveils plan for electric vehicle charging networkBiden admin reveals 60 finalists for $1B in economic grantsThe AP Interview: Japanese tourist says space trip 'amazing'BofA CEO: Consumers spending at fastest pace he's seen Here’s how Southern Baptist women found ways to lead outside the denominationRELIGION Many Southern Baptist women who left the denomination took leadership roles in other churches, educational institutions and organizations. 1253 words. By Susan M. Shaw, Oregon State UniversityThe US doesn’t have enough faculty to train the next generation of nursesCOMMENTARY The US has a growing demand for nurses. Yet nursing schools are turning away many qualified candidates. 835 words. By Rayna M. Letourneau, University of South FloridaWhy is my poop brown?COMMENTARY The answer is more complicated than you might think. It has to do with how your body gets rid of old red blood cells. 590 words. By Hannibal Person, University of WashingtonWhy the southern US is prone to December tornadoesCOMMENTARY Tornadoes in December aren’t unusual in the Gulf Coast and lower Mississippi Valley states, but the Dec. 10-11 outbreak was extreme and far-reaching. 859 words. By Alisa Hass, Middle Tennessee State University and Kelsey Ellis, University of Tennessee¿Pruebas COVID de PCR o antígenos? Conoce cuáles son las diferenciasADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Los dos tipos de pruebas de COVID-19 – antígeno y PCR – funcionan de formas muy diferentes, por lo cual una es rápida pero menos certera y la otra lenta y precisa. 1097 words. By Nathaniel Hafer, UMass Chan Medical SchoolWhy is inflation so high? Is it bad? An economist answers 3 questions about soaring consumer pricesCOMMENTARY Inflation is rising at the fastest pace since Ronald Reagan was president. 716 words. By William Hauk, University of South CarolinaHow conspiracy theories in the US became more personal, more cruel and more mainstream after the Sandy Hook shootingsCOMMENTARY The Sandy Hook school shooting continues to reverberate in the US nine years later, marking a new age of misinformation. 931 words. By Amanda J. Crawford, University of ConnecticutUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.