NEW YORK (AP) — Joel Embiid scored 34 points and the Philadelphia 76ers spoiled Kevin Durant’s return to the lineup by beating the Brooklyn Nets 110-102 on Thursday night.Durant had 33 points in his first game in two weeks, having missed three games in health and safety protocols. He picked up right where he left off, having averaged 39.7 points in the three games before that.But Embiid converted a tiebreaking three-point play with 3:14 remaining and Tyrese Maxey and Seth Curry hit 3-pointers to send the 76ers to their third straight victory.Embiid clinched it with a follow shot while being fouled. He and Durant then both received technical fouls and the center was jawing with the Nets as the game ended, waving his arm to send them off the floor.James Harden had 33 points, 14 rebounds and 10 assists for the Nets, continuing his strong stretch since returning from a three-game absence in health and safety protocols. But the Nets had no good answer for Embiid all night.ADVERTISEMENTMaxey added five 3-pointers and 25 points, while Curry scored 17 for the 76ers, who were led by assistant coach Dan Burke after Doc Rivers was placed in health and safety protocols earlier Thursday.NBABucks complete sweep of Magic 136-118, push win streak to 5AP source: Cavs making progress in trade for Lakers' RondoBeal scores 29 in return, Wizards beat Cavaliers 110-93Embiid scores 34, 76ers beat Nets 110-102 in Durant's returnEmbiid scored 16 points in the first 9 1/2 minutes and Andre Drummond added six more after replacing him, giving Philadelphia a 39-31 lead after one quarter. Embiid banked in a 3-pointer with 30 seconds left in the half to give the 76ers a 55-54 edge.Durant scored 14 in the third and the Nets were up seven after he made consecutive 3-pointers. But Maxey made two in a row to end the period and send the Sixers to the fourth up 84-82.TIP-INS76ers: Burke said Rivers was feeling well and was upbeat. “He said he feels good, he’s not the least bit worried, and if anybody just takes things in stride and keep it real or keep it relative, it’s Doc,” Burke said, “and that’s the lead we’ve got to follow.” ... Burke was 0-2 as an acting head coach under Nate McMillan in Indiana.Nets: A day after Kyrie Irving returned to practice, coach Steve Nash said he hadn’t had any further discussion with the point guard about whether he would get vaccinated, making him eligible to play in home games. “Not since we had those conversations in the preseason and since then we have not,” Nash said. ... The Nets fell to 6-1 against Atlantic Division opponents.ABSENT ASSISTANTSAlong with Rivers, assistant coaches Sam Cassell and Brian Adams were both unavailable because of protocols. Assistant coach Dave Joerger stepped away from the team in November to undergo treatment for cancer. That left just Burke, Eric Hughes and Jamie Young among Rivers’ assistant coaches.UP NEXT76ers: Host the Houston Rockets on Monday.Nets: Host the Los Angeles Clippers on Saturday.___More AP NBA: https://apnews.com/hub/nba and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports