MEN’S COLLEGE BASKETBALLCOLUMBUS, Ohio (AP) — Zed Key scored a career-high 20 points and Ohio State held top-ranked Duke scoreless for the final 4 1/2 minutes, completing a rally from a 15-point second-half deficit to beat the Blue Devils 71-66 on Tuesday night.E.J. Liddell hit two free throws with 1:06 remaining to give the Buckeyes (5-2) their first lead since early in the first half, and his jumper made it 69-66 with 16 seconds left. Duke freshman star Paolo Banchero missed a tying 3-pointer, and Cedric Russell got the rebound and closed it out at the free-throw line. Ohio State fans stormed the court as time expired.The Blue Devils (7-1) claimed the top spot in this week’s AP Top 25 poll — a stay that could be brief — after beating then-No. 1 Gonzaga in Las Vegas. Ohio State improved to 2-1 against ranked foes this year with its fourth straight game decided in the final minutes.ADVERTISEMENTLiddell finished with 14 points and 11 rebounds for Ohio State, which beat the No. 1 team in the country for the second straight time on its home court. The Buckeyes knocked off Michigan State 80-64 on Jan. 7, 2018.GOLFNASSAU, Bahamas (AP) — Tiger Woods doesn’t have a lot of answers about his past or his future. He says he has no recollection of the February car crash in the Los Angeles suburbs that shattered his right leg.As for the golf, the 15-time major champion says he hasn’t reached a point where he can even decide whether he wants to return. If anything, he says he won’t be playing a full schedule again. Woods on Tuesday had his first media availability since the February accident. He is in the Bahamas this week to host his Hero World Challenge.NBAPHOENIX (AP) — Deandre Ayton scored 24 points, Chris Paul added 15 points and 11 assists, and the Phoenix Suns tied a franchise record of 17 straight wins by beating the Golden State Warriors 104-96 on Tuesday night in an early showdown between the NBA’s top teams.The Suns won despite losing star guard Devin Booker to a left hamstring injury in the second quarter. He had 10 points and two rebounds in 15 minutes. The 25-year-old appeared to get hurt when driving to the basket for a layup, grabbing at the back of his left leg before walking to the locker room a few minutes before halftime.Even without Booker, the Suns led 56-54 at halftime and 80-78 going into the fourth quarter. The game stayed tight, and neither team led by double digits until Landry Shamet knocked down a 3-pointer — on an assist by Paul — with 54.4 seconds left. SACRAMENTO, Calif. (AP) — LeBron James has been placed in the NBA’s health and safety protocols, and was ruled out for the Los Angeles Lakers’ game against the Sacramento Kings on Tuesday night.Such a move almost certainly means one of two things: that James, who said earlier this season that he is vaccinated, either tested positive for COVID-19 or had an inconclusive result.ADVERTISEMENTIf James tested positive, he would likely be looking at a minimum of 10 days away from the Lakers unless he returns two negative PCR tests in a 24-hour span.NFLEAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. (AP) — New York Giants quarterback Daniel Jones has a neck injury and his status for Sunday’s game against the Miami Dolphins is uncertain, a person familiar with the situation has told The Associated Press.The person spoke on condition of anonymity Tuesday because the Giants have not released their injury report and the team had the day off. The person said Jones’ name will be on the report on Wednesday.NFL Network was first to report the injury.Coach Joe Judge is scheduled to talk to reporters on Wednesday— By AP Sports Writer Tom Canavan.MLBJavier Báez is taking his high motor to Motor City.Báez has agreed to a $140 million, six-year contract with Detroit, giving the Tigers a dynamic bat for the middle of their order.Báez, who turns 29 on Wednesday, hit .265 with 31 homers and 87 RBIs in 138 games with the Cubs and Mets this season. The move likely puts Báez back at shortstop after he finished the year at second base while playing alongside good friend Francisco Lindor in New York.The contract is pending a physical, according to a person with direct knowledge of the situation who spoke to The Associated Press on Tuesday on condition of anonymity because the deal had not been finalized.— By Baseball Writer Jay Cohen.NEW YORK (AP) — Starling Marte and the New York Mets finalized their $78 million, four-year contract Tuesday night.The team also completed its deal with Mark Canha, another free agent outfielder. Canha gets $26.5 million over two years with a club option for 2024.The active Mets also have agreements in place — pending physicals — with two more free agents: ace pitcher Max Scherzer ($130 million over three years) and All-Star infielder Eduardo Escobar. The 33-year-old Marte played for Miami and Oakland this year, batting .310 with 12 homers, 55 RBIs and a major league-high 47 steals in 120 games.MIAMI (AP) — The Miami Marlins completed the signing of right-hander Sandy Alcantara to a five-year contract on Tuesday.The sides agreed Sunday to a deal worth $56 million. The Marlins said the deal also includes an option for a sixth season.It’s a record-setting deal for the Marlins in a couple of different ways. It’s the longest and richest for in history for any first-year arbitration eligible pitcher, according to the Marlins, and the longest deal that the current team ownership group — led by Bruce Sherman and Derek Jeter — have given a player.SEATTLE (AP) — AL Cy Young Award winner Robbie Ray and the Seattle Mariners finalized their $115 million, five-year contract Tuesday night.Ray is coming off the best season of his career with the Toronto Blue Jays, going 13-7 with a 2.84 ERA and 248 strikeouts in 193 1/3 innings. A left-handed power pitcher, he topped the majors in strikeouts and led the American League in ERA, games started and innings pitched. CHICAGO (AP) — The Chicago White Sox fortified their bullpen on Tuesday, announcing a $24 million, three-year contract with right-hander Kendall Graveman.The 30-year-old Graveman is expected to pitch in front of All-Star closer Liam Hendriks, who had 38 saves and a 2.54 ERA in his first season with Chicago. The defending AL Central champions also have Craig Kimbrel, but he could be on the move after he faltered in a setup role with the White Sox.After beginning his career as a starter, Graveman flourished while working out of the bullpen this year. He went 5-1 with a 1.77 ERA and his first 10 career saves in 53 games with Seattle and Houston.ATLANTA (AP) — The Atlanta Braves have locked up manager Brian Snitker for three more seasons after he guided the team to its first World Series title since 1995.The Braves announced Tuesday they have exercised the option for the 2024 season on Snitker’s contract, an expected move for the highly popular skipper who already had two more years on his current deal.The 66-year-old Snitker is a Braves lifer, having spent more than four decades in the organization in various roles before he finally landed the big league managing job during the 2016 season after Fredi Gonzalez was fired.COLLEGE FOOTBALLDALLAS (AP) — Michigan moved up to No. 2 Tuesday night in the second-to-last College Football Playoff rankings, joining Georgia, Alabama and Cincinnati in the top four heading into conference championship weekend.Oklahoma State is fifth going into the Big 12 championship game Saturday against Baylor, and Notre Dame is sixth with no games left and no head coach.Georgia was first, as it has been for every selection committee ranking so far, and Michigan climbed to No. 2 after it beat last week’s No. 2, Ohio State. The Wolverines play Iowa in the Big Ten title game.Alabama will be third going into the Southeastern Conference championship game with Georgia, and Cincinnati is fourth heading into its American Athletic Conference championship against Houston.The playoff field will be set Sunday.NEW ORLEANS (AP) — LSU formally announced the hiring of Notre Dame coach Brian Kelly on Tuesday and said they have agreed to a 10-year contract worth $95 million plus incentives.The hiring of Kelly — who has led Notre Dame for the past 12 seasons and eclipsed Knute Rockne for career victories with the storied Fighting Irish — came together on Monday night in yet another blockbuster coaching move in college football.“Brian Kelly is the epitome of a winner,” LSU athletic director Scott Woodward said. “He has built and sustained success at every program he’s led, from multiple undefeated regular seasons and National Coach of the Year honors to (Division II) national titles and College Football Playoff berths. His credentials and consistency speak for themselves.”Kelly replaces Ed Orgeron, a Louisiana native who won a national title at LSU just two seasons ago with Heisman Trophy winning quarterback Joe Burrow leading the Tigers to a 15-0 record.LEXINGTON, Ky. (AP) — Kentucky coach Mark Stoops has agreed to a contract extension that will keep him with the No. 25 Wildcats through June 2028.Stoops’ deal is being finalized, but will continue to include guaranteed extensions of one year for a seven-win season and two years for a 10-win finish. A release Tuesday stated Stoops earned a one-year extension through 2027 with Kentucky’s current 9-3 record.SEATTLE (AP) — Washington is hoping that dipping back into the Mountain West pool with the hiring of Kalen DeBoer as its new head coach will help the school replicate the success it had when Chris Petersen made the move from Boise State to the Huskies in 2013. DeBoer has agreed to a five-year, $16.5 million deal with Washington after two seasons as the coach at Fresno State. The contract starts at $3.1 million in guaranteed compensation and escalates by $100,000 per year.The contract is strikingly similar to the deal former coach Jimmy Lake was working under prior to his firing in mid-November.NHLNEWARK, N.J. (AP) — The New Jersey Devils have locked up their best player until the end of the decade, signing center Jack Hughes to an eight-year, $64 million contract extension.General manager Tom Fitzgerald announced the signing Tuesday afternoon, hours before the Devils and Hughes were to face the San Jose Sharks.Hughes is returning to the lineup after missing 17 games with a dislocated shoulder.LOS ANGELES (AP) — Los Angeles Kings forward Brendan Lemieux has been suspended for five games for biting Ottawa’s Brady Tkachuk last weekend.The NHL announced the discipline Monday night for Lemieux, who will forfeit $38,750 in salary while under suspension.The bite happened late in the third period of the Kings’ 4-2 win last Saturday at Staples Center. Lemieux was prone on the ice and wrestling with Tkachuk and a linesman when he bit Tkachuk on the right hand.Lemieux received a match penalty for his actions.SOCCERVANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — The Vancouver Whitecaps have made interim coach Vanni Sartini their permanent head coach.Sartini agreed to a two-year deal through the 2023 season, the Whitecaps announced Tuesday. Sartini was named interim coach on Aug. 27 after the Whitecaps dismissed Marc Dos Santos. The team fell to last place in the Western Conference in early August after an eight-game winless streak. DONCASTER, England (AP) — The England women’s team swept to the biggest win in its history on Tuesday, beating Latvia 20-0 in a World Cup qualifier.There were 10 different scorers and four got hat tricks — including Ellen White, who became the team’s record scorer of all time and is now on 48 goals for her country.England’s previous biggest win was 13-0 against Hungary in 2005.OBITUARYLIVERPOOL, England (AP) — Ray Kennedy, a former England midfielder who won league titles with Liverpool and Arsenal, has died. He was 70.Kennedy’s death was announced by both clubs on Tuesday. He was diagnosed with Parkinson’s disease in 1984.Kennedy won the league and FA Cup double with Arsenal in 1971. He joined Liverpool three years later and won five league titles and three European Cups.A highlight of his Liverpool career came when he scored a decisive away goal against Bayern Munich in the second leg of the 1981 European Cup semifinals.Kennedy also played 17 times for England.___More AP sports: https://apnews.com/hub/apf-sports and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports