PITTSBURGH (AP) — Jeff Carter redirected a centering pass from Kris Letang between the legs of Malcom Subban 2:53 into overtime to give the Pittsburgh Penguins a 3-2 win over the Buffalo Sabres on Friday night.Pittsburgh extended its winning streak to a season-high six games by relying on the NHL’s top penalty-killing unit at the start of overtime after Carter drew a penalty for tripping with just 5 seconds left in regulation. Carter atoned by deftly slipping the puck past Subban to send his teammates spilling over the bench in celebration.Evan Rodrigues set a career high with his 10th goal and Brock McGinn scored for the third time in four games, but Buffalo pushed Pittsburgh to overtime thanks to a spectacular performance by Subban.Subban made a career-high 45 saves in his second start with Buffalo since being acquired from Chicago earlier this month. His best stop was a behind-the-back glove save to rob Rodrigues next to the crease.ADVERTISEMENTBLUES 4, STARS 1ST. LOUIS (AP) — Vladimir Tarasenko scored twice, Charlie Lindgren made 26 saves and St. Louis capped a home-and-home sweep against Dallas.Lindgren improved to 5-0 since taking over in net for the injury-ravaged Blues.NHLCarter, Penguins solve Subban in OT, beat Sabres 3-2Jeannot scores in OT, short-handed Preds beat Blackhawks 3-2Marchessault lifts Golden Knights past Rangers, 3-2 in SONHL shuts down 2 more teams for a week amid COVID surgeLogan Brown scored, Ivan Barbashev added an empty-netter and Pavel Buchnevich recorded two assists as St. Louis won for the fifth time in six games. The Blues have points in their last seven games (5-0-2) overall and in nine straight home games (8-0-1) since Nov. 18.Jason Robertson scored and Braden Holtby made 30 saves for the Stars, who lost their fifth straight game. Dallas has scored three times in its last four games.GOLDEN KNIGHTS 3, RANGERS 2NEW YORK (AP) — Jonathan Marchessault scored in the third round of the shootout and Vegas beat New York for its season-high fourth straight victory.Brett Howden had a goal and an assist and Dylan Coghlan also scored in regulation as Vegas won for the seventh time in eight games. Laurent Brossoit had 27 saves. Mika Zibanejad and Chris Kreider each had a goal and assist in the second period for the Rangers, who lost for the fourth time in six games after a seven-game win streak. Alexander Georgiev, making his sixth start in place of injured starting goalie Igor Shesterkin, stopped 28 shots.After Vegas’ Nicolas Roy and Evgenii Dadonov and New York’s Kaapo Kakko and Zibanejad were stopped in the first two rounds of the shootout, Marchessault broke through for the Golden Knights. Brossoit then denied Ryan Strome to preserve the win.PREDATORS 3, BLACKHAWKS 2CHICAGO (AP) — Tanner Jeannot scored in overtime, Thomas Novak and Colton Sissons also scored, and short-handed Nashville beat Chicago.The Predators won their seventh straight game despite having eight players in COVID-19 protocols. Defenseman Mark Borowiecki was ruled out following a positive test 90 minutes before faceoff.The entire coaching staff is also out because of COVID-19. This was the second game Karl Taylor, head coach of their farm club in Milwaukee, ran the bench with his assistant, Scott Ford. Many of his players were called up as well.With three of their top four scorers out, Nashville played a tight defensive game, allowing only 19 shots — and holding Blackhawks star Patrick Kane to just two — while still managing to take 31 at Marc-Andre Fleury. Jonathan Toews and Kirby Dach scored for the Blackhawks.CAPITALS 5, JETS 2WINNIPEG, Manitoba (AP) — Vitek Vanecek made 40 saves and Washington spoiled the debut of new Winnipeg coach Dave Lowry.Michael Sgarbossa and Alex Ovechkin scored empty-net goals in the final 2:40 to seal the win for Washington. Brett Leason, Daniel Sprong and Conor Sheary also scored for the Capitals.Brenden Dillon and Josh Morrisey scored for Winnipeg. Connor Hellebuyck stopped 34 of the 37 shots.Lowry, Winnipeg’s former assistant coach, was named interim head coach after Paul Maurice announced his resignation earlier Friday.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports