ATLANTA (AP) — The number of patients hospitalized with COVID-19 has risen almost 50% in Georgia in the last month, and the number of infections detected continues to accelerate.More than 1,200 patients were hospitalized statewide Monday with the respiratory illness. That’s well below the record of roughly 6,000 that was reached in early September at the peak of Georgia’s fourth surge of virus cases. But it’s well above the recent low of 824 patients recorded on Nov. 22.“We are fortunate that our cases are relatively low right now in south Georgia, but based on what is happening all across the country, we do not expect that to last long, Scott Steiner, CEO of Albany-based Phoebe Putney Health System, said in a Friday statement. “We strongly encourage all eligible individuals to receive a COVID vaccine and booster shot, and please be cautious as you travel and gather over the holidays.”ADVERTISEMENTThe state’s seven-day average of positive tests rose to nearly 2,800 a day on Monday. That number has nearly doubled in a week and is more than triple the recent low of early November.Among those who have tested positive is Atlanta-mayor elect Andre Dickens. He said a rapid test Monday shows he has COVID-19 and he is isolating, although he reports feeling well and having mild symptoms. Dickens, who said he is fully vaccinated, said he’s awaiting the results of a more accurate molecular test and urged anyone with whom he’s been in contact recently to get tested and quarantine.Intensive care unit bed usage has been basically flat in the range of 2,400 a day for the last six weeks, a number that includes all illnesses and not just COVID-19. That’s about 82% of statewide capacity.Coronavirus pandemicLive updates: Biden near staffer who later tested positiveModerna: Initial booster data shows good results on omicronVirus fears widen as omicron variant takes hold across USIsrael to ban travel to US, Canada over omicron variantCOVID-19 patients who are hospitalized remain overwhelmingly unvaccinated. At the four-hospital Northeast Georgia Health System based in Gainesville, 83% of hospitalized COVID-19 patients were unvaccinated on Sunday, as was every single COVID-19 patient in an intensive care unit.Georgia ranks sixth lowest among the states, with 50.4% of its population vaccinated, according the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Data. Everyone 5 and older is eligible to vaccinated in Georgia.CDC officials said Monday that cases of the omicron variant now make up more than 90% of new infections in the Southeast, displacing the once-dominant delta variant.Much about the omicron coronavirus variant remains unknown, including whether it causes more or less severe illness. Scientists say omicron spreads even easier than other coronavirus strains, including delta, and has become the dominant version of the coronavirus in the U.S.Early studies suggest the vaccinated will need a booster shot for the best chance at preventing an omicron infection. But even without the extra dose, experts say vaccination still should offer strong protection against severe illness and death.