OLYMPIA, Wash. (AP) — Nearly 100 COVID-19 cases — including several identified as the omicron variant — have been linked to recent high school wrestling tournaments, said health authorities in Washington state.The Department of Health, along with local health jurisdictions in multiple counties, have been investigating several outbreaks among unvaccinated and vaccinated people.Between 80 to 90 cases have been linked to the tournaments that happened Dec. 4. State epidemiologist Dr. Scott Lindquist said he expects more cases to be identified in the coming hours and days.“This is an early ongoing investigation,” Lindquist said of the outbreak during a media briefing Wednesday. “I have a sense it’s going to be very large and I have a sense that omicron is going to play a big role in this.” Health officials as of Wednesday afternoon had confirmed that three of the cases were the omicron variant with about 10 others identified as probable omicron cases, Lindquist said.The cases have been tied to the John Birbeck Invitational in Lacey, Washington; Yelm Girls Varsity in Yelm, Washington; Ed Arima Duals in Sumner, Washington; and the Lady Jags Kickoff Tournament in Puyallup, Washington.The state health department said counties that had high schools at the tournaments were Clark, Cowlitz, Grays Harbor, King, Kitsap, Lewis, Mason, Skagit, Snohomish, Pierce, Thurston, Whatcom and Yakima.There was also one Oregon high school with participants.Authorities said anyone who attended the tournaments should monitor for symptoms and get tested for COVID-19. Anyone with symptoms or who tests positive should stay home.Health officials are determining whether added COVID-19 guidelines are needed for wrestling and other close-contact sports such as volleyball and basketball, Lindquist said.Based on seeing video from the indoor tournaments, he added that many in attendance were not following guidelines already in place such as masking. Lindquist said although he understands it’s tiresome at this stage of the pandemic, people need to continue doing the things that help control the coronavirus: get vaccinated and boosted, wear masks and socially distance.People age 5 and older are eligible for vaccines. Those 16 and older who have been fully vaccinated are eligible for booster shots — six months after Pfizer and Moderna shots and two months after the Johnson & Johnson shot.Officials said they will send out notifications to those directly impacted at the tournaments soon.