Nonfiction 1. Will by Will Smith and Mark Manson, narrated by Will Smith (Penguin Audio) 2. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)3. I Am Mine by Eddie Vedder, performed by the author (Audible Original) 4. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 5. The Real Anthony Fauci by Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., narrated by Bruce Wagner (Skyhorse Publishing, Inc.) 6. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)7. If You Tell by Gregg Olsen, narrated by Karen Peakes (Brilliance Audio) 8. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing)9. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio) 10. Laptop from Hell by Miranda Devine, narrated by Richard Cefalos (Post Hill Press) ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. Fallout by Craig Alanson, narrated by R.C. Bray (Podium Audio)2. Project Hail Mary by Andy Weir, performed by Ray Porter (Audible Studios)3. The Best Worst Christmas by Kate Forster, performed by Rachael Tidd (Audible Originals)EntertainmentHappy 100th, Bloody Mary: Paris marks cocktail's birthday Penelope Cruz honored by MoMA for her career in cinema​Fox stars tried to get Trump to act on Jan. 6, texts showReview: A Spidey sense overdose in 'No Way Home'4. Well Played by Vi Keeland and Penelope Ward, performed by Sebastian York and Andi Arndt (Audible Studios)5. Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty, narrated by Caroline Lee (Macmillan Audio)6. There’s Something About Merry by Codi Hall, performed by CJ Bloom and Lee Samuels (Audible Originals)7. Wish You Were Here by Jodi Picoult, narrated by Marin Ireland (Random House Audio)8. The Eye of the World by Robert Jordan, narrated by Kate Reading and Michael Kramer (Macmillan Audio)9. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, Ilyana Kadushin, Byron Jennings, David R. Gordon, Jason Culp, Kent Broadhurst, Oliver Wyman, Patricia Kilgarriff, and Scott Sowers (Macmillan Audio)10. A Perfect Stranger by Shalini Boland, performed by Alison Campbell, Tamsin Kennard and Ciaran Saward (Audible Originals)