Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Omicron-Poverty porn-Leaded fuel-------STORIES:How Elon Musk can save big on taxes by giving away a ton of his Tesla stockADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY Giving away stock that has soared and that the donor has owned for at least a year makes the biggest dent in what share the IRS takes. 1215 words. By Eric James Allen, University of California, RiversideCoronavirus pandemicThe AP Interview: CDC chief says omicron mostly mild so farVaccine makers racing to update COVID shots, just in caseHow will the world decide when the pandemic is over?Ukraine spa town stands out amid nation's vaccine hesitancyBosnia’s endless crisis could be solved by letting it break apart peacefullyCOMMENTARY The Dayton accords in 1995 ended years of ethnic warfare in Bosnia, but more than 25 years later, the peace is holding but little else is. Serbian President Milorad Dodik wants out. 1127 words. By Timothy William Waters, Indiana UniversityBuddhist nuns and female scholars are gaining new leadership roles, in a tradition that began with the ordination of Buddha’s foster motherRELIGION Traditionally, Buddhism has been opposed to women taking on leadership roles. However, nuns in many Buddhist-majority countries are challenging the patriarchal rules. 1134 words. By Jue Liang, Denison UniversityMedical examiners and coroners have borne a heavy burden during the COVID-19 pandemic and have often felt invisible and unsupportedCOMMENTARY Death care workers are at high risk for burnout as well as depression and other mental health concerns. 926 words. By Staci Zavattaro, University of Central FloridaADVERTISEMENTColorful sweets may look tasty, but some researchers question whether synthetic dyes may pose health risks to your colon and rectumSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Sixty percent of the Standard American Diet consists of ultra-processed food, which isn’t great for colon health. Researchers are looking into whether artificial food colors play a role. 859 words. By Lorne J. Hofseth, University of South CarolinaFiguring out omicron – here’s what scientists are doing right now to understand the new coronavirus variantCOMMENTARY Careful lab work will complement public health data as researchers worldwide focus on omicron, asking questions about contagiousness, severity of disease and whether vaccines hold up against it. 1135 words. By Peter Kasson, University of VirginiaA century of tragedy: How the car and gas industry knew about the health risks of leaded fuel but sold it for 100 years anywayCOMMENTARY Burning leaded gasoline releases toxic lead into the environment, and for 100 years people around the world have been dealing with the health effects. How did a century of toxic fuel come to be? 1013 words. By Bill Kovarik, Radford UniversityMany global charities refrain from ‘poverty porn’ imagery to raise money from donors, but stereotypes still distort their picturesCOMMENTARY These photos tend to oversimplify the issues that cause poverty and the suffering of poor people in low-income countries. 570 words. By Abhishek Bhati, Bowling Green State UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.