Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Kim Jong-un-Mistletoe-Fruitcake-------STORIES:The magnificent history of the maligned and misunderstood fruitcakeADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY The polarizing dessert that people love to hate became a Christmas mainstay thanks, in part, to the U.S. Postal Service. 787 words. By Jeffrey Miller, Colorado State UniversityBell hooks will never leave us – she lives on through the truth of her wordsCoronavirus pandemicEXPLAINER: Must employers follow Biden's vaccine mandates?CDC recommends Pfizer, Moderna COVID-19 shots over J&J'sCOVID-19 fears dash hopes for the holiday season — againAcross services, troops face discipline for refusing vaccineCOMMENTARY Bell hooks, the Black feminist writer and intellectual, died on Dec. 15 aged 69.  Scholar and activist Karsonya Wise Whitehead provides a personal reflection on what hooks meant to her life. 1137 words. By Karsonya Wise Whitehead, Loyola University MarylandKim Jong Un’s decade in power: Starvation, repression and brutal rule – just like his father and grandfatherCOMMENTARY Kim Jong Un has followed his father and grandfather in ruling by fear. The coronavirus pandemic has made North Korea ever more isolated, while expanded military capabilities make it a growing threat. 946 words. By Sung-Yoon Lee, Tufts UniversityStudent loans linked to greater harm for parents who borrow for their children than people who borrow for themselvesCOMMENTARY Student loan debt can hurt borrowers, but the pain is even greater when borrower is taking out a student loan for their child, new research shows. 660 words. By Thomas Korankye, University of ArizonaA Persian festival, Yalda, celebrates the triumph of light over darkness, with pomegranates, poetry and sacred ritualsADVERTISEMENTRELIGION People stay up all night, telling stories and eating dried fruits, in addition to watermelon and pomegranate, to celebrate the sunrise soon after the longest night of the year. 483 words. By Pardis Mahdavi, Arizona State UniversityThe US is making plans to replace all of its lead water pipes from coast to coastCOMMENTARY It will cost tens of billions of dollars to find and remove all the lead service lines that deliver water to US homes and schools. A public health expert explains why he sees it as money well spent. 1052 words. By Gabriel Filippelli, IUPUISold-out supplies, serving a public need and other adventures of doing science during a pandemic – 4 researchers share their experiencesSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Supply chain issues, emergency science, social distancing requirements and a lot more free time offered both challenges and opportunities for research scientists. 1234 words. By Christian L’Orange, Colorado State University; Erin Lavik, University of Maryland, Baltimore County; Nilanjan Banerjee, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, and Tony Schmitz, University of TennesseeHow to help those who have lost loved ones to suicide cope with grief during the holidaysCOMMENTARY Nearly all suicide-loss survivors experience guilt, wondering what they could have done to prevent it. But despite decades of research, experts struggle to identify risk factors and predict suicide. 641 words. By Michael R. Nadorff, Mississippi State University and Julie Cerel, University of KentuckyThe ‘runner’s high’ may result from molecules called cannabinoids – the body’s own version of THC and CBDCOMMENTARY A growing body of research points to the body’s natural cannabinoid system as the primary driver behind the runner’s high – and the mental health boost and stress relief following exercise. 1207 words. By Hilary A. Marusak, Wayne State UniversityConvenient but susceptible to fraud: Why it makes sense to regulate charitable crowdfundingCOMMENTARY The informality and the speed can be helpful in emergencies. But it’s hard to make sure that money raised in a hurry is used in accordance with what donors expect. 933 words. By Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer, University of Notre DameUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.