Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Christmas history-Ocean plastic-Chris Cuomo-------STORIES:How Christmas became an American holiday tradition, with a Santa Claus, gifts and a treeADVERTISEMENTRELIGION Christmas was popularized in the American culture during the American Civil War, when Harper’s Weekly featured the image of Santa Claus visiting the Union Army on its front page. 927 words. By Thomas Adam, University of ArkansasModern-day culture wars are playing out on historic tours of slaveholding plantationsCOMMENTARY The romanticized notions of Southern gentility are increasingly at odds with historical reality as the lives, culture and contributions of the enslaved are becoming integral on tours of plantations. 835 words. By Kelley Fanto Deetz, University of California, BerkeleyHow did Uncle Sam become a symbol for the United States?COMMENTARY The iconic image may have originated with a meat supplier named Samuel Wilson. Or not. 564 words. By Paul Bruski, Iowa State UniversityWhy addressing racism against Black women in health care is key to ending the US HIV epidemicCOMMENTARY Black American women have disproportionate HIV infection rates – in part because of systemic and structural racism in the health care system. 1212 words. By Nabila El-Bassel, Columbia UniversityConsumers value a product viewed online more if they see it being virtually touchedCOMMENTARY New research shows people experience the ‘endowment effect’ of valuing an object more when they can touch it, even in virtual settings. 677 words. By Andrea Luangrath, University of IowaADVERTISEMENTAn expert draws 7 lessons about US gun laws from the murder of Ahmaud Arbery and the Rittenhouse verdictCOMMENTARY Spoiler alert: Stolen guns arm criminals, and limiting gun carrying outside the home reduces violent crime. 956 words. By John Donohue, Stanford UniversityHow dual loyalties created an ethics problem for Chris Cuomo and CNNCOMMENTARY A journalist’s role is to serve the public interest. But CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, by helping his brother, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo during a scandal, put personal interests above the public’s. 1127 words. By Jane E Kirtley, University of MinnesotaPlastic trash in the ocean is a global problem, and the US is the top source – a new report urges actionCOMMENTARY An estimated 8 million metric tons of plastic waste enters the ocean each year – equivalent to dumping in a garbage truckload of it every minute. A new report calls on the US to help stem the deluge. 917 words. By Matthew Savoca, Stanford University; Anna Robuck, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, and Lauren Kashiwabara, University of the PacificUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.