LAS VEGAS (AP) — Josh Jacobs rushed for 129 yards and the Las Vegas Raiders came from behind to defeat the Denver Broncos 17-13 on Sunday to stay relevant in the AFC playoff picture.With the win, the Raiders (8-7) severely damaged the postseason chances for AFC West rival Denver (7-8), which dropped its third game in the last four.Las Vegas quarterback Derek Carr completed 20 of 25 passes for 201 yards with one touchdown and an interception. Carr completed at least one pass to all seven of his targets, led by Zay Jones, who had six receptions for 50 yards. Hunter Renfrow had three catches for 40 yards and one touchdown, while Foster Moreau and DeSean Jackson each had four receptions.After controlling much of the first half, the Raiders turned over the ball on consecutive drives spanning just three plays, and allowed the Broncos to take a 13-7 lead at halftime.ADVERTISEMENTBut the Raiders took the opening drive of the second half 75 yards over nine plays, led by Jacobs’ 57 yards on seven attempts. Denver took the lead for good on Peyton Barber’s 5-yard TD run.Jacobs’ performance on the ground marked his first 100-yard rushing game of the season.NFLChiefs rout stumbling Steelers 36-10 to clinch AFC WestTexans two-step around COVID roster shuffle for a winPanthers fans growing impatient with Matt Rhule, losing  Washington LB Davis out vs. Cowboys as COVID-19 precautionAfter the Raiders moved ahead 17-13 on Daniel Carlson’s 41-yard field goal with 7:38 left, the Las Vegas defense stifled Denver. Quinton Jefferson sacked Denver’s Drew Lock and forced the Broncos to punt.The Raiders were 9 for 10 in stopping Denver on third downs and limited the Broncos to 158 net yards on offense. Las Vegas held the Broncos to a mere 18 yards on the ground. Lock, starting for injured Teddy Bridgewater, finished with 15 completions on 22 attempts for 153 yards. Bridgewater suffered a concussion in last week’s 15-10 loss to the Bengals.CLUB 90Renfrow became the third wide receiver in franchise history with 90 catches in a season, joining Hall of Famers Tim Brown and Jerry Rice. Renfrow is one of six Raiders to haul in 90 passes. TEs Darren Waller and Todd Christensen and RB Charlie Garner also had 90 in a season.COVID-19 ROLL CALLReceiver Bryan Edwards and backup quarterback Marcus Mariota were put on the COVID-19 list earlier Sunday. Las Vegas had three total players on the list.The Broncos were missing starting center Lloyd Cushenberry III, who went on the list Thursday.INJURIESDenver CB Ronald Darby left in the third quarter, was evaluated for a possible concussion, but returned shortly afterward.Carr went into the medical tent after being sacked by Shelby Harris in the third quarter with what appeared to be a left hand injury, but returned for the next possession.UP NEXTBroncos: travel to the Chargers on Jan. 2.Raiders: travel to the Colts on Jan. 2.__More AP NFL coverage: https://apnews.com/hub/NFL and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL