CONCORD, N.H. (AP) — The Executive Council refused to fund six more walk-in vaccination centers Wednesday but reversed course after the governor pleaded for reconsideration.The five-member council that approves nominations and contracts was asked to approve paying Convenient MD $7.2 million to set up vaccination sites in Concord, Exeter, Keene, Manchester, Nashua and Salem. Led by Ted Gatsas, three of the four Republican councilors initially voted against it, over concerns that the contract wasn’t put out to bid.“You have just shut down six walk-in sites when the entire state is complaining that they can’t get a vaccine. I am begging you to reconsider,” Gov. Chris Sununu said. “If we have to put this out to bid, it will not happen for literally months. These walk-in sites are absolutely critical to managing this pandemic, stopping the spread and getting hospitalizations down.”When Gatsas protested that he wasn’t looking to eliminate sites, Sununu interjected “Yes you are, you just did.”“Don’t put words in my mouth,” said Gatsas. “What I’m looking for is fairness.”Gatsas suggested awarding contracts to three companies to operate two sites each. But Health and Human Services Commissioner Lori Shibinette said Convenient MD was chosen based on its resources and the urgency of opening the sites as soon as possible.“The same companies that are complaining to you have received sole source contracts at some point in this pandemic,” she said. “We have 460+ people in the hospital now. We need to get needles in arms now.”Republican Janet Stevens joined Democrat Cinde Warmington in voting for the contract. On reconsideration, all five voted in favor.Also Wednesday, the state judicial system announced a pause on all superior court jury trials and grand juries through January because of rising COVID-19 cases. Chief Justice Tina Nadeau said the decision was partly due to an increasing number of jurors who have had to drop out because of sickness or exposure.___Associated Press writer Kathy McCormack contributed to this report.