AP Business SummaryBrief at 2:10 p.m. ESTChinese factory activity edges higher in DecemberBEIJING (AP) — A survey shows Chinese factory activity edged higher in December as supply disruptions eased and export demand weakened. The monthly purchasing managers’ index issued by the national statistics agency and an industry group gained to 50.3 from November’s 50.1 on a 100-point scale on which numbers above 50 show activity accelerating. Chinese manufacturing has been hampered by shortages of some components including semiconductors and disruptions in shipping. Some areas ordered factories to shut down temporarily starting in September to meet official energy efficiency targets.Wave of canceled flights from omicron closes out 2021Flight cancellations surged again on the last day of 2021, with airlines blaming it on crew shortages related to the spike in COVID-19 infections. By late morning Friday on the East Coast, airlines scrubbed more than 1,300 flights, according to tracking service FlightAware. That compared with about 1,400 cancellations for all of Thursday. The disruptions are likely to inconvenience hundreds of thousands of air travelers over the New Year’s holiday weekend. Canceled flights began rising shortly before Christmas, driven by the remnants of the delta variant and the rise of the new omicron variant of COVID-19.Coronavirus pandemicKentucky school districts devastated by tornadoes seek helpGeorgia schools going virtual due to COVID spikeNevada upholds vaccine mandate for staff at public collegesStocks are mixed in subdued trading on the last day of 2021ADVERTISEMENTLive updates: 1 in 15 people in London likely has COVID-19New figures from Britain’s official statistics body estimate that about 1 in 25 people in private households in England had COVID-19 in the week before Christmas, as the highly transmissible omicron variant spread rapidly across the country. The Office for National Statistics said Friday that number jumped from 1 in 45 in the previous week. The figure was even higher in London, where officials said around 1 in 15 people was likely to test positive for coronavirus in the week up to Dec. 23. One in 25 is the equivalent of about 2 million people with coronavirus in England. That’s the highest number since the statistics body began estimating infection levels in May 2020.Party-goers urged not to travel across UK as omicron surgesLONDON (AP) — Officials have warned revelers in Scotland and Wales to think twice before travelling to England to ring in the new year, highlighting how the four parts of the U.K. are again taking starkly different approaches to coronavirus restrictions amid record high infections and soaring hospitalizations. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has resisted tightening restrictions in England despite the rapid spread of the omicron variant. Meanwhile Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland imposed new restrictions this week that closed all nightclubs and limited social gathering. Opinions are divided on whether Johnson’s Conservative government was taking a risky gamble in not enforcing tougher coronavirus measures in England. Daily cases in the U.K. another record high of 189,846 on Friday.ADVERTISEMENT$15B from Gates, French Gates tops 2021 biggest gift listIt was a healthy year for big gifts to charitable causes in 2021, a year that saw one of the largest multibillion-dollar contributions in more than a decade, according to a Chronicle of Philanthropy tally. The power philanthropists Bill Gates and Melinda French Gates announced in May that they were divorcing and then gave a jaw-dropping $15 billion to their foundation in July. The money will bolster its endowment and support the grant maker’s work in global health, development, policy and advocacy, and U.S. education well into the future. The gift increased the grant maker’s endowment to about $65 billion.Stocks inch lower in subdued trading on the last day of 2021Stocks were slightly lower in thin trading Friday, closing out what has turned out to be another banner year for Wall Street. Energy and banks were among the biggest gainers, a common occurrence for the last month. The S&P 500, which hit its latest record high on Wednesday, is heading for a gain of more than 27% for the year, or 29% including dividends. That’s nearly as much as the index gained in 2019. The yield on the 10-year Treasury inched up to 1.52%. The bond market will close early Friday, but stocks will trade on a normal schedule.Food disruptions feared in UK as new Brexit rules kick inLONDON (AP) — New post-Brexit custom rules for goods arriving from the European Union to Britain are taking effect on Saturday. A leading food industry body has warned that the new border controls could lead to food shortages. Beginning Jan. 1, importers must make a full customs declaration on goods entering the U.K. from the EU or other countries. Businesses will no longer be allowed to delay completing full import customs declarations for up to 175 days. The British Frozen Food Federation says the new restrictions on animal and plant products from the EU could result in major delays at ports in the New Year. The U.K. imports five times the amount of food it exports to the EU.Europe’s shared notes and coins turn 20 at New Year’sFRANKFURT, Germany (AP) — This New Year’s the European Central Bank is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the euro’s notes and coins. The physical euro was introduced on January 1, 2002, three years after the euro was adopted for noncash purposes by fixing its exchange rate to legacy national currencies. The occasion is being marked by a light display on the facade of the bank’s headquarters in Frankfurt. The euro has been through its ups and downs including a crisis over too much government and bank debt. But now the 19 member countries are taking a further step to connect their economies by borrowing together to fund their recovery from the pandemic. France urges green habits with new car ads, bans on plasticPARIS (AP) — French customers will be encouraged to adopt more environmentally friendly habits under a series of new regulations to take effect in 2022. Beginning Saturday, leeks and carrots, tomatoes and potatoes, apples and pears and about 30 other items will no longer be sold in plastic. Starting in March, French car ads will have to mention one of three messages urging people to use their cars less and walk or take public transit more. The measures promoted by President Emmanuel Macron’s government seek to reduce pollution and the impact of cars on greenhouse gas emissions. The government says the new regulation is expected to eliminate about 1 billion items of plastic waste per year. ‘Pooh,’ ‘Sun Also Rises’ among works going public in 2022WASHINGTON (AP) — “Winnie the Pooh” and “The Sun Also Rises” are going public. A.A. Milne’s children’s book and Ernest Hemingway’s novel are among the works from 1926 whose copyrights will expire Saturday, putting them in the public domain in 2022. Poetry collections “The Weary Blues” by Langston Hughes and “Enough Rope” by Dorothy Parker will also turn 95, putting them in the public domain under U.S. law. The silent films “Battling Butler” starring Buster Keaton, “The Temptress” starring Greta Garbo, “The Son of the Sheik” starring Rudolph Valentino, and “For Heaven’s Sake” starring Harold Lloyd will also become public. NEW YORK (AP) — Stocks fell slightly in thin trading Friday, closing out what has turned out to be another banner year for Wall Street. Energy and banks were among the biggest gainers, a common occurrence for the last month. The S&P 500 index slipped 0.1% as of 12:45 p.m. Eastern, flipping between small gains and losses. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was down less than 0.1% and the Nasdaq composite was down 0.3%. The vaccine makers were among the better performers Friday, with Pfizer and Moderna both up roughly 2% each. 2021 has been a strong year for stock investors. The S&P 500, which hit its latest record high on Wednesday, is heading for a gain of roughly 27% for the year.