SEATTLE (AP) — Max Domi had two goals and an assist, Jake Bean scored 55 seconds into overtime and the Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Seattle Kraken 5-4 on Saturday night. Jack Roslovic and Oliver Bjorkstrand each had a goal and assist for the Blue Jackets, who won for just the second time in eight games. Elvis Merzlikins made 28 saves and the Blue Jackets withstood Seattle’s furious rally in the third period. Seattle rallied with three goals in the third, capped by Vince Dunn’s wrist shot with 4:06 remaining to pull even at 4-all. Seattle scored twice 22 seconds apart early in the third, with Jaden Schwartz deflecting Joonas Donskoi’s shot past Merzlikins at 3:41 and moments later Morgan Geekie snapped a wrist shot off a pass from Mason Appleton to pull Seattle within 4-3. Jared McCann added his 11th of the season in the second period for Seattle. The Kraken earned a point, but lost their third straight. ADVERTISEMENTPhilipp Grubauer made 24 saves, but couldn’t get his blocker up in time to deflect Bean’s shot from the right circle in OT. Columbus scored four times in the second period to take a 4-1 lead. Bjorkstrand scored at 8:13 of the second, beating Grubauer with a wrist shot from the left circle. Three minutes later, Roslovic redirected Domi’s pass into the net for his fifth of the season. NHLHertl scores in 4th straight game, Sharks beat Stars 2-1Aho scores twice for Hurricanes in 3-1 victory over OilersIslanders earn 1st win in new arena, beat New Jersey 4-2Domi has two goals, Columbus holds off Seattle 5-4 in OTThen it was Domi’s turn. His breakaway goal at 16:43 of the second gave the Blue Jackets a 3-1 lead, and he added a second score 2:51 later when Bjorkstrand’s shot slipped between Grubauer’s pads, and Domi was there to guide the puck into the net. Domi had a three-point game for the third time this season. COVID CONCERNSSeattle placed forwards Yanni Gourde and Riley Sheahan, and assistant coach Jay Leach into the league’s COVID-19 protocol on Saturday morning. The trio joined forward Colin Blackwell, who was placed into the protocol on Wednesday. Seattle coach Dave Hakstol indicated the team learned of the positive tests on Saturday morning. “We get the information in real time here and we got some new information this morning. So we want to make sure that we’re clear in our minds as to who is available for tonight’s game,” Hakstol said after the morning skate. “It’s not ideal to have these types of changes on the morning of a game, but as you said it’s not new for anybody in the sports world right now.”Seattle recalled forward Alexander True from Charlotte of the AHL. True is the first former Seattle Thunderbirds player to debut for the Kraken. NOTESIt was the first overtime game at Climate Pledge Arena. ... Seattle G Chris Driedger was activated off the injured list on Saturday and Joey Daccord was reassigned to Charlotte. ... Bjorkstrand picked up his 200th career point with Columbus. He’s the 11th player to record 200 points with the franchise. ... Seattle F Marcus Johansson appeared in his 700th career game. He’s the 11th active Swedish skater to reach 700 games. UP NEXTBlue Jackets: Columbus is at Vancouver on Tuesday. Kraken: Seattle is at San Jose on Tuesday. ___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/nhl and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports