CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. (AP) — The city of Charlottesville is searching for people to lead the city, going so far as to turn to a consulting firm to run it because two city managers have resigned this year and a candidate for the interim role backed out.John Blair left in February, and Chip Boyles resigned in October, The Daily Progress of Charlottesville reported. Boyles cited public criticism that erupted after he fired the city’s police chief, a Black woman, saying he was concerned other city leaders would leave if he did not fire her. RaShall Brackney, the police chief who was fired, filed an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission complaint against the city, Boyles and others, asking for $3 million. Brackney alleges she was discriminated against on the basis of race and sex. At a news conference in November she said she was still experiencing “humiliating acts of discrimination, continued disparate treatment, harassment and retaliation.”BusinessOutlets hurt by dwindling public interest in news in 2021Omicron, storms disrupt air travel for 4th consecutive dayDelta: Flight to Shanghai turned back because of COVID rulesHolmes jury ends fourth inconclusive day of deliberationsADVERTISEMENTAssistant Police Chief James Mooney, who was to replace Brackney temporarily, backed out.Outgoing Mayor Nikuyah Walker, who often has said that city leaders were contributing to white supremacy, announced in September she would not run for City Council again because of Brackney’s firing as well as her relationship with the other councilors. Walker has posted comments on social media comparing the city to a rapist, drawing criticism of her own.“When we have this level of turnover … we can’t respond adequately to the needs of the community, we can’t adequately respond to constituent requests and we can’t adequately create and implement public policy,” councilor Michael Payne said.Walker and Boyles did not respond to requests from The Daily Progress for interviews.Marc Woolley, recently appointed interim city manager, has backed out a day before his start date, the city announced Tuesday.The city has lost over a dozen of its upper and midlevel leaders and has gone through five city managers in the last two years alone. The aftermath of the deadly Unite the Right rally in 2017 saw the departure of several city leaders. However, the recent departures have put the city in a precarious spot.“What’s happened in Charlottesville over the last few years is an outlier,” said Charles Hartgrove, the director of the Virginia Institute of Government at the University of Virginia. “That (type of turnover) is not typical of what we see in most Virginia localities, cities, counties or towns.”Hartgrove said vacancies in key city positions can affect both day-to-day and future operations of the government and have lasting ramifications.ADVERTISEMENT“If there’s a leadership vacuum, continuity of operations and the long term planning is where things might suffer when you talk about implementing strategic plans,” he said.Councilors said they think the national media spotlight that Charlottesville is often under in the aftermath of the 2017 rally and social media pressure from the public have taken its toll on city staff and elected officials.“Finding the right person to sit in Charlottesville is not easy. The public has a very high demand for the city manager to also be in the spotlight, and most city managers are not used to that. They’re used to the council taking that role,” Vice-Mayor Sena Magill said. “We’re under a national spotlight on a constant basis.”