MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) — Attorneys for inmates praised a sweeping ruling issued Monday by a federal judge that will require Alabama’s prison system to make changes in inmate mental health care.U.S. District Judge Myron Thompson issued a sometimes scathing 600-page opinion that often focused on the prison system’s lack of progress in meeting an earlier directive to boost staffing and also on the number of suicides that have occurred behind bars. The Monday order spelled out corrective measures and comes after Thompson in 2017 ruled that Alabama’s “horrendously inadequate” care of mentally ill inmates violated the U.S. Constitution’s ban on cruel and unusual punishment.The ruling came after a two-month trial in which attorneys for inmates argued the state continued to fail to provide adequate care. “Judge Thompson’s decision requires ADOC to finally remedy the unconstitutional mental health care identified more than four years ago. This will ensure that the individuals held by ADOC will receive the mental health care they need – and are entitled to – as protected by the Eighth Amendment,” Ashley Austin, an attorney at the Southern Poverty Law Center, said in a statement.HealthWHO chief worried about 'tsunami' of omicron, delta casesNew COVID-19 cases in US soar to highest levels on recordBelgium reverses COVID cultural rules: The show must go on!Suits against OxyContin owners on hold; negotiations orderedADVERTISEMENTAustin said if the prison system is unable to “operate adequately with the current staff and funds allotted to it by the state, population reduction must be the consideration – not denial of adequate services.” Thompson sharply criticized the state’s lack of progress in meeting a 2022 deadline. He said staffing has barely increased in three years, and the system has filled less than half of the positions necessary to meet the requirement of 3,826 full-time-equivalent officers. The judge had previously directed the state to meet staffing targets by Feb. 20, 2022, but wrote Monday that it’s become clear that is “out of reach.” Thompson extended the deadline to July 1, 2025 for the state to fill all mandatory and essential posts, but he also ordered the creation of yearly benchmarks to measure progress. “As Judge Thompson reminds all Alabamians, once our state chooses to put a person in prison the state must provide a safe environment and adequate mental health care. Here, the state has failed to do so. Too many individuals have died because of the state’s failures,” James Tucker, director of the Alabama Disabilities Advocacy Program, said in a statement. The two organizations filed a lawsuit against the prison system in 2014 on behalf of incarcerated inmates. ADVERTISEMENTThompson ordered the state to make numerous other changes to mental health care including ensuring that inmates get some time out of their cells, that security checks are regularly conducted, that assessments are properly done, that inmates who require hospital-level care receive it within a reasonable period of time and that staff conduct regular drills on how to respond to suicide attempts. Thompson also ordered that before being discharged from suicide watch, an inmate must receive a confidential, out-of-cell evaluation by a mental health professional and then follow-up examinations for three days. In the four years since his initial ruling, Thompson said at least 27 more prisoners have died by suicide, and he described some of the incidents. Thompson said the state has a “mixed” track record in making other improvements in the care of mentally ill inmates. He noted the state had made improvements in the number of mental health workers.A spokesperson for the Alabama Department of Corrections said the department could not immediately respond.