Baltimore Ravens star quarterback Lamar Jackson left the stadium in a protective boot after spraining his right ankle in Sunday’s 24-22 road loss to the Cleveland Browns, a concerning sight for a banged-up team trying to hold on to the AFC North lead.Coach John Harbaugh said Jackson will undergo further tests on Monday. He was unwilling to speculate on the severity of the injury or how long Jackson could be sidelined. “We’ll see how it responds,” Harbaugh said. The Ravens (8-5) host the Green Bay Packers next Sunday.Jackson was hurt when rookie linebacker Jeremiah Owusu-Koramoah hit him low while throwing a pass on the first play of the second quarter. Jackson limped off the field under his own power before being examined in the sideline medical tent. When he emerged, Jackson wasn’t able to put any weight on his leg while getting into the front seat of a cart for the short drive to the locker room.ADVERTISEMENTThe 2019 NFL MVP has struggled recently, throwing six interceptions in his past three games. He was replaced by Tyler Huntley.Jackson’s injury is just the latest for the Ravens, who have been dealing with medical issues since the summer when running backs J.K. Dobbins and Gus Edwards went down. Three-time Pro Bowl cornerback Marcus Peters was lost days before the opener and star cornerback Marlon Humphrey suffered a season-ending pectoral injury last week. Baltimore has 17 players on injured reserve.NFLSlumping Prescott, Cowboys can thank D for NFC East cushionHouston's running woes continue in 33-13 loss to SeahawksOffense, defense come together as Chiefs roll toward LAInjuries, virus absences taking their toll for WashingtonBrowns quarterback Baker Mayfield was checked for a concussion and cleared in the third quarter. Backup Case Keenum replaced him for one play. Browns running back Kareem Hunt hurt his left ankle while the Ravens also lost defensive tackle Calais Campbell (thigh) and wide receiver Tylan Wallace (concussion).Washington quarterback Taylor Heinicke was knocked out of a 27-20 loss to Dallas with an injured left knee but said afterward he “should be fine.” Heinicke turned the ball over twice, including when he was strip-sacked by Micah Parsons, with Dorance Armstrong returning the fumble 37 yards for a touchdown. Heinicke also said his throwing elbow got tweaked when a defender grabbed it.“If he’s healthy, he’s our starter,” coach Ron Rivera said of Heinicke.Seattle cornerback Gavin Heslop was carted off the field with a left leg injury late in the fourth quarter of a victory at Houston. Coach Pete Carroll said the injury was serious and Heslop was expected to spend the night in Houston.ADVERTISEMENTOther players injured Sunday included Giants defensive lineman Leonard Williams (elbow); Jaguars running back Carlos Hyde (evaluated for a concussion); Titans guard Rodger Saffold (shoulder) and fullback Tory Carter (ankle); Seahawks defensive tackle Bryan Mone (knee) and defensive back D.J. Reed (bruised chest); and Texans wide receiver Davion Davis (ankle) and linebacker Kamu Grugier-Hill (knee); safety Justin Reid (evaluated for a concussion), running back Rex Burkhead (groin) and defensive back Desmond King (evaluated for a concussion).Also injured were Bills wide receiver Emmanuel Sanders (knee) and reserve running back Taiwan Jones (knee); Bucs running back Giovani Bernard (hip) and cornerback Jamel Dean (illness); Falcons safety Erik Harris (chest) and linebacker Emmanuel Ellerbee (knee); Raiders cornerback Trayvon Mullen (toe); Lions cornerback Jerry Jacobs (knee) and linebacker Alex Anzalone (ankle); Broncos inside linebacker Kenny Young (evaluated for a concussion); 49ers linebacker Azeez Al-Shaair (elbow); and Bengals defensive end Trey Hendrickson (back) and right tackle Riley Reiff (ankle).___More AP NFL: https://apnews.com/hub/nfl and https://apnews.com/hub/pro-32 and https://twitter.com/AP_NFL