Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-SCOTUS-Faculty diversity-Sea otters-------STORIES:How a Supreme Court decision limiting access to abortion could harm the economy and women’s well-beingADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY In past rulings, the court has acknowledged that there’s a connection between the ability of women to control their reproductive lives and the economic health of the nation. 1041 words. By Michele Gilman, University of BaltimoreUse of HIV prevention treatments is very low among Southern Black gay menCOMMENTARY This finding suggests public health efforts will have to address the treatment barriers these men face – like poverty or homophobia – to meet the nation’s goal of ending the HIV epidemic by 2030. 593 words. By Oluwafemi Atanda Adeagbo, University of South Carolina and Xiaoming Li, University of South CarolinaWhy COVID-19 must be included in safer sex messaging on college campusesCOMMENTARY Schools have not adequately educated students about the increased risks of virus transmission when it comes to being sexually intimate. 894 words. By Tamra Burns Loeb, University of California, Los Angeles; Gail Wyatt, University of California, Los Angeles, and Michele R. Cooley-StricklandSchool shootings are at a record high this year – but they can be preventedCOMMENTARY School shootings are typically preceded by a series of warning signs. Are educators, police and policymakers paying enough attention? 1068 words. By James Densley, Metropolitan State University  and Jillian Peterson, Hamline University ADVERTISEMENTFemale faculty of color do extra diversity work for no extra reward – here’s how to fix thatCOMMENTARY If colleges want to address systemic racism within their institutions, they can start by crediting female faculty members of color for work that gets overlooked. A group of higher ed researchers explains how. 756 words. By Joya Misra, University of Massachusetts Amherst; Alexandra Kuvaeva, University of Maryland; Audrey J. Jaeger, North Carolina State University; Dawn Culpepper, University of Maryland, and KerryAnn O’Meara, University of MarylandSea otters demonstrate that there is more to muscle than just movement – it can also bring the heatSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  New research finds that ‘leaky mitochondria’ help keep sea otters warm. 867 words. By Traver Wright, Texas A&M University; Melinda Sheffield-Moore, Texas A&M University, and Randall Davis, Texas A&M UniversityThe US biofuel mandate helps farmers, but does little for energy security and harms the environmentCOMMENTARY The US has required motor fuels to contain 10% biofuels since 2005. As this program nears a key milestone in 2022, farm advocates want to expand it while critics want to pare it back or repeal it. 1146 words. By John DeCicco, University of MichiganVictims of domestic abuse find no haven in family courtsCOMMENTARY Family courts’ hostility – both in the US and abroad – toward claims of paternal or spousal abuse has been widely reported. Now there’s an in-depth study that documents that hostility. 1116 words. By Joan Meier, George Washington UniversitySupreme Court signals shift on abortion – but will it strike down Roe or leave it to states to decide when ‘personhood’ occurs?COMMENTARY Arguments in a case that could fundamentally alter a woman’s right to abortion were heard at the Supreme Court. Justices’ questions suggest that Roe v. Wade is on shaky ground. 1279 words. By Morgan Marietta, University of Massachusetts LowellUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.