VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — Bruce Boudreau got his first win as coach of the Canucks on Monday as Vancouver blanked the Los Angeles Kings 4-0.The victory came less than 24 hours after the Canucks cleaned house, firing general manager Jim Benning, assistant manager Jim Weisbrod, head coach Travis Green and assistant coach Nolan Baumgartner.Vancouver’s Thatcher Demko had 30 saves to collect his first shutout of the season and the second of his career. Brock Boeser and J.T. Miller each had a power-play goal and an assist for Vancouver, while Conor Garland and Juho Lammikko also found the back of the net.Cal Petersen had 27 saves for the Kings, who beat the Oilers 5-1 in Edmonton on Sunday.Special teams have been a struggle for the Canucks this season, but Vancouver went 2 for 4 on the power play Monday and successfully weathered two penalties.The Kings’ Lias Anderson was called for high-sticking on Oliver Ekman-Larsson midway through the third and Miller capitalized on the man advantage. His shot from inside the faceoff circle careened into the net off the crossbar with about 7 minutes left put Vancouver up 4-0.ADVERTISEMENTLahmmikko gave the Canucks their third goal of the night 6:59 into the period, picking off an errant Kings pass and putting a shot past Petersen stick-side for his first goal in a Vancouver jersey. The 25-year-old left-winger was a healthy scratch in the previous five games.The Canucks went up a pair 5:43 into the middle frame. Rookie Vasily Podkolzin put a shot wide with the puck ricocheting off the end boards. Garland picked up the rebound behind the net and wrapped it into yawning net before Petersen could get back in position.A power-play goal opened the scoring early in the second after Los Angeles’ Mikey Anderson was called for tripping Bo Horvat. Stationed at the goal line, Tanner Pearson sliced a pass to Boeser at the top of the faceoff circle. The right-winger uncorked a snap shot and the puck deflected in off the skate of Kings defenceman Drew Doughty in front of the net.The goal was Boeser’s fifth of the season and his first in 14 games.HOMECOMINGMonday was the first time Kings defenseman Alex Edler had returned to Vancouver since signing with LA in July. The 35-year-old played 15 seasons in Vancouver and holds a number of franchise records for the Canucks, including most games played by a defenseman (925), and most goals (99), assists (310) and points (409) by a defenseman.The club recognized Edler with a video tribute during early in the first period, and the veteran blue liner hopped over the boards to wave to the cheering crowd.NOTES: Boudreau previously coached for the Capitals, Ducks and Wild, and won the Jack Adams Award as the league’s top coach while with Washington in 2008. … Garland now has eight goals on the season. Miller leads the Canucks with nine. … Vancouver extended its win streak over L.A. to six games.UP NEXTCanucks: Host Boston on Wednesday. Kings: Host Dallas on Thursday.