CHICAGO (AP) — Caleb Jones scored his first goal of the season 1:21 into overtime, and the Chicago Blackhawks beat Alex Ovechkin and the Washington Capitals 5-4 on Wednesday night.Washington tied it on Conor Sheary’s sixth goal with 3 seconds left in regulation. But Jones knocked home a rebound to give Chicago a wild victory.Ovechkin scored his 274th career power-play goal in the second period, matching Dave Andreychuk’s NHL record, but Chicago responded with three goals in 34 seconds. After Lars Eller tied it for Washington in the third, Alex DeBrincat beat Ilya Samsonov for his second power-play goal with 5 minutes left.MacKenzie Entwistle and Philipp Kurashev also scored for the Blackhawks. Brandon Hagel had two assists, and Marc-Andre Fleury made 42 saves.Ovechkin, Eller and Sheary each had a goal and an assist for the Capitals, who had won three of four. Daniel Sprong also scored, and T.J. Oshie had two assists. ADVERTISEMENTWashington center Nicklas Backstrom picked up an assist in his first game after missing the start of the season with a hip injury. But the Capitals played without Evgeny Kuznetsov because of the NHL’s COVID-19 protocol.NHLTerry, Grant propel first-place Ducks past Kraken, 4-1Kakko scores twice, Rangers rally late to beat Coyotes 3-2US sports leagues cope with COVID-19 outbreaks amid variantsOvechkin ties NHL record, but Blackhawks beat Caps in OTRANGERS 3, COYOTES 2GLENDALE, Ariz. (AP) — Kaapo Kakko had two goals, including the game-winner with 2:18 left, and New York scored twice on the power play in the final six minutes to beat Arizona.Mika Zibanejad added a goal and an assist for the Rangers, who had dropped two straight and three of four. Chris Kreider had three assists — matching a career high — after entering the game with four all season. Kakko tapped the tiebreaker into an open side off a pass from Kreider after Zibanejad scored with help from Kreider’s screen at 14:14 of the third period to tie it 2-all.Clayton Keller had a goal and an assist, and Loui Eriksson scored short-handed for the struggling Coyotes, who have lost six in a row.Keith Kinkaid made 29 saves in his first start of the season for the Rangers.DUCKS 4, KRAKEN 1ANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Troy Terry got his 18th goal and Derek Grant scored short-handed as Anaheim beat Seattle for its fourth victory in five games.Trevor Zegras and Sam Carrick also scored for the Pacific Division-leading Ducks, who spoiled expansion Seattle’s first appearance in Southern California with a one-sided win. Anthony Stolarz made 19 saves for Anaheim, which has scored 11 goals on the Kraken in two meetings this season.Ryan Donato scored a power-play goal in Seattle’s fourth loss in five games. Anaheim earned at least one point for the eighth time in nine games and moved out to a three-point lead on Calgary atop the division.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports