Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------STORIES:Future of college will involve fewer professorsCOMMENTARY A futurist who focuses on education technology says artificial intelligence is slowly making human professors less vital to colleges and universities. 845 words. By Patricia A. Young, University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyADVERTISEMENTCities worldwide aren’t adapting to climate change quickly enoughTechnologyThe AP Interview: Justice Dept. conducting cyber crackdownUS puts new controls on Israeli spyware company NSO GroupAustralia regulator demands face-scanning firm delete photosNew Mazda cars will stop if driver suffers health problemCOMMENTARY More than half of the world’s population lives in cities, and that share is growing. Rapid climate change could make many cities unlivable in the coming decades without major investments to adapt. 1051 words. By John Rennie Short, University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyHow ideas from ancient Greek philosophy may have driven civilization toward climate changeRELIGION The Athens fires were a dangerous reflection of Atomist philosophies that see the world as exploitable, for sale and open to waste and abuse. 1058 words. By Michael Paul Nelson, Oregon State University and Kathleen Dean Moore, Oregon State UniversityTrailblazing women who broke into engineering in the 1970s reflect on what’s changed – and what hasn’tSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  A survey of 251 women engineers who graduated from college in the 1970s sheds light on the experiences of these professional pioneers. 859 words. By Laura Ettinger, Clarkson UniversityCan Facebook’s smart glasses be smart about security and privacy?SCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Smart glasses like Facebook’s Ray-Ban Stories could be used to record you surreptitiously. If the company adds facial recognition, you could be even more exposed. 1015 words. By Apu Kapadia, Indiana UniversityADVERTISEMENTWiccans in the US military are mourning the dead in Afghanistan this year as they mark Samhain, the original HalloweenRELIGION Samhain will be particularly poignant this year for Wiccans who are members or veterans of the US military as they process the end of the 20-year war in Afghanistan. 893 words. By Helen A. Berger, Brandeis UniversitySmells like witch spirit: How the ancient world’s scented sorceresses influence ideas about magic todayCOMMENTARY Scent and magic have been entwined in our imaginations for centuries – right up to today’s witch-inspired perfumes. 981 words. By Britta Ager, Arizona State UniversityViruses are both the villains and heroes of life as we know itSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Viruses have gotten a bad rap for the many illnesses and pandemics they’ve caused. But viruses are also genetic innovators – and possibly the pioneers of using DNA as the genetic blueprint of life. 868 words. By Ivan Erill, University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.