BOSTON (AP) — Brad Marchand scored 28 seconds into the game and added an assist as the Boston Bruins beat San Jose 4-3 Sunday, snapping the Sharks’ season-opening four-game win streak.David Pastrnak and Derek Forbort each had a goal and an assist, and Jake DeBrusk also scored for Boston. Linus Ullmark finished with 23 saves for the Bruins, who held on after the Sharks scored back-to-back goals late in the third period.Jasper Weatherby, Tomas Hertl and Timo Meier scored for the Sharks, who were trying to go 5-0 for the first time since 2013. Adin Hill was pulled after allowing four goals on 14 shots in the first 21:28. James Reimer replaced Hill and stopped all 20 shots he faced, keeping the Sharks close before goals 1:49 apart in the third made it a tight finish.PREDATORS 5, WILD 2ST. PAUL, Minn. (AP) — Roman Josi had a four-point game, Connor Ingram won his first NHL start, and Nashville ended Minnesota’s season-opening win streak at four games.ADVERTISEMENTNHLHall of Fame covers Brad Aldrich's name on Stanley CupPenguins star Crosby, defenseman Dumoulin on COVID-19 listDevils P.K. Subban fined $15,000 for 2nd tripping offenseWings, Coyotes, Senators, Sabres at different rebuild stagesRyan Johansen scored twice, Josi, Tanner Jeannot and Filip Forsberg had goals and Matt Duchene added three assists for the Predators, who have scored nine goals in two games after scoring eight total in their first four outings. The 24-year-old Ingram finished with 33 saves.Nick Bjugstad and Nico Sturm scored for Minnesota, which was looking to open the season with five straight victories for the first time since 2007-08.RED WINGS 6, BLACKHAWKS 3CHICAGO (AP) — Lucas Raymond had three goals and an assist, and Detroit beat winless Chicago.Tyler Bertuzzi added a goal and two assists. Carter Rowney and Vladislav Namestnikov also scored, and Alex Nedeljkovic made 32 saves.The 19-year-old Raymond, the No. 4 overall pick in last year’s draft, recorded his first career hat trick in his sixth NHL game.Dominik Kubalik, Tyler Johnson and Henrik Borgstrom scored for Chicago, which dropped to 0-5-1. Jonathan Toews had two assists.The Blackhawks played without Patrick Kane, Riley Stillman and Jujhar Khaira because of the league’s COVID-19 protocol. Assistant coach Marc Crawford also was absent because of the protocol.The crowd of 19,042 stopped the Blackhawks’ sellout streak at 535 games. ISLANDERS 2, GOLDEN KNIGHTS 0LAS VEGAS (AP) — Ilya Sorokin made 42 saves, Josh Bailey and Matthew Barzal scored and New York blanked Vegas.The Islanders recorded consecutive road shutouts after blanking Arizona 3-0 on Saturday. The Islanders improved to 22-4-4 on the back end of back-to-back games under coach Barry Trotz, who took over in 2018.Sorokin, who has started all six games for the Islanders, improved to 3-2-1.Vegas goaltender Robin Lehner (1-4-0) made 24 saves in his fifth straight start. The Golden Knights have been outscored 16-6 during a four-game losing streak.___More AP NHL: https://apnews.com/hub/NHL and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports