ROCKY HILL, Conn. (AP) — In a sign of solidarity, member unions of the Connecticut AFL-CIO voted unanimously Friday for a slate of new leaders who will represent the umbrella federation at a time when organized labor is feeling emboldened.Delegates from nearly 250 member unions, participating virtually in the 14th biennial convention held on Zoom, voted unanimously for Ed Hawthorne as president and Shellye Davis as executive vice president, in addition to several other officers.At 36, Hawthorne, a lawyer and former hearing officer at the state Department of Labor, vice president of AFSCME Local 269, and president of the Western Connecticut Area Labor Federation, becomes the youngest person to lead the Connecticut AFL-CIO. “Working on your behalf as the president of Connecticut AFL-CIO is a dream come true,” he said, promising he and Davis will work to ensure union members “achieve the American Dream.”ADVERTISEMENTHawthorne is replacing long-time union leader Sal Luciano, who is retiring from the position after three years. Luciano started his career as a social worker at the former state Department of Children and Youth Services. He was elected president of his local union and later became executive director of AFSCME Council 4, a job he held for 17 years.Luciano voiced optimism for the labor movement, noting there’s high approval for organized labor and the unionized workers across the country who have gone on strike during what’s been dubbed as “Strike-tober.”“Workers are flexing their muscles,” he said. “Sisters and brothers, we have the wind of change at our backs. We can make real movement for positive social change. Let us not squander this opportunity.”Davis, who is president of the Hartford Federation of Paraprofessionals, AFT Local 2221, is the first Black woman elected as the second-highest ranking officer of the Connecticut AFL-CIO. The unanimous support of Hawthorne and Davis comes on the heels of unions coalescing behind the federation. District 1199 New England, SEIU, which represents nursing home, group home and other mostly health care workers, recently rejoined the AFL-CIO while the building trades recently agreed to remain with federation.