Here’s a look at what The Conversation, a non-profit source of explanatory journalism from experts in academia, is offering today.AP members may find The Conversation content on AP Newsroom or through AP webfeeds. For technical assistance, please contact apcustomersupport@ap.org or call 877-836-9477.If you have any questions on The Conversation content, including:- Requests for cut-down copy- Photos and chart availability- Information on upcoming stories and coverage plansPlease contact Joel Abrams at us-republish@theconversation.com or 857-233-8429.-------TODAY’S HIGHLIGHTS:-Colin Powell-Trick-or-treating-Ireland’s churches-------STORIES:Viruses are both the villains and heroes of life as we know itADVERTISEMENTSCIENCE OR TECHNOLOGY  Viruses have gotten a bad rap for the many illnesses and pandemics they’ve caused. But viruses are also genetic innovators – and possibly the pioneers of using DNA as the genetic blueprint of life. 868 words. By Ivan Erill, University of Maryland, Baltimore CountyCoronavirus pandemicUS mandates vaccines or tests for big companies by Jan. 4Roll up your sleeves: Kids' turn arrives for COVID-19 shotsCOVID-19's global death toll tops 5 million in under 2 yearsGOP state officials push back on employer vaccine mandateBiden calls for a big expansion of offshore wind – here’s how officials decide where the turbines may goCOMMENTARY The Biden administration is proposing a big increase in offshore wind power. A former state official explains how regulators find the best sites and balance competing interests. 961 words. By David Cash, University of Massachusetts BostonYes, we should be keeping the healthier hand-washing habits we developed at the start of the pandemicCOMMENTARY The risk of getting the coronavirus from a surface is low. But the frequent hand-washing from early in the pandemic is a good thing since most people weren’t washing their hands enough to begin with. 818 words. By Melissa Hawkins, American UniversityWhat’s behind the magic of live music?COMMENTARY Some concertgoers reported being so moved by their first concerts in nearly two years that they wept with joy – a testament to the power of this unique form of human communion and connection. 930 words. By Mariusz Kozak, Columbia UniversitySimple safety tips for trick-or-treating after Fauci greenlighted Halloween 2021ADVERTISEMENTCOMMENTARY There’s no need to pull out the candy catapult this year, but a few reasonable precautions can keep COVID-19 transmissions in check. 519 words. By Meg Sorg, Purdue UniversityA century after partition, Ireland’s churches are cooperating more closely than everRELIGION A church service marking Northern Ireland’s centenary has stirred up debate. But amid the past few years’ tensions, the island’s Christian leaders have coordinated closely. 1191 words. By Ger FitzGerald, George Mason UniversityHaving COVID-19 or being close to others who get it may make you more charitableCOMMENTARY Experiments in the US and Italy that observed people’s charitable choices found similar results: People tend to prefer to help local communities. 610 words. By Nancy R. Buchan, University of South Carolina; Gianluca Grimalda, Kiel Institute for the World Economy, and Orgul Demet Ozturk, University of South CarolinaAs a patriot and Black man, Colin Powell embodied the ‘two-ness’ of the African American experienceCOMMENTARY A scholar of African American studies explores how the former secretary of state, who died at 84, dealt with what WEB DuBois described as the ‘double-consciousness’ of being Black and American. 1069 words. By Chad Williams, Brandeis UniversityUse of these stories is subject to the conditions at http://bit.ly/TCUSinfo.