Nonfiction 1. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)2. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)3. The High 5 Habit by Mel Robbins, narrated by the author (Mel Robbins Productions, Inc.)4. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)5. Bad Republican by Meghan McCain, narrated by the author (Audible Originals) 6. Eat Smarter by Shawn Stevenson, narrated by the author (Little, Brown & Company) 7. The Art of War by Sun Tzu, narrated by Aidan Gillen (Audible Studios)8. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a F(asterisk)ck by Mark Manson, narrated by Roger Wayne (HarperAudio)9. Who I Really Am: Diary of a Vampire, written and performed by Alice Cooper (Audible Originals)10. Can’t Hurt Me by David Goggins, narrated by the author and Adam Skolnick (Lioncrest Publishing) ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. The Judge’s List by John Grisham, narrated by Mary-Louise Parker and the author (Random House Audio)EntertainmentS Africa's Galgut, US author Powers lead Booker Prize race Gucci's star-studded fashion show shines bright in HollywoodPaul Newman memoir left unpublished to come out next year2 die when man falls, lands on other in Sweden concert venue2. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, Ilyana Kadushin, Byron Jennings, David R. Gordon, Jason Culp, Kent Broadhurst, Oliver Wyman, Patricia Kilgarriff, and Scott Sowers (Macmillan Audio)3. Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty, narrated by Caroline Lee (Macmillan Audio)4. The Sandman by Neil Gaiman and Dirk Maggs, performed by Neil Gaiman, James McAvoy, Riz Ahmed, Kat Dennings, Taron Egerton, Samantha Morton, Bebe Neuwirth, Andy Serkis, Michael Sheen, and full cast (Audible Originals)5. The Keeper of Happy Endings by Barbara Davis, narrated by Robin Siegerman and Hope Newhouse (Brilliance Audio)6. Buried Bones by Melinda Leigh, narrated by Jane Oppenheimer (Brilliance Audio)7. A Shadow in the Ember by Jennifer L. Armentrout, narrated by Stina Nielsen (Brilliance Audio)8. The Sandman: Act II by Neil Gaiman and Dirk Maggs, performed by Neil Gaiman, James McAvoy, Michael Sheen, Andy Serkis, Emma Corrin, Brian Cox, Kat Dennings, John Lithgow, Jeffrey Wright, David Tennant, Rege-Jean Page, and Bill Nighy, and full cast (Audible Originals)9. Dracula by Bram Stoker, performed by Alan Cumming, Tim Curry, Simon Vance, Katherine Kellgren, Susan Duerden, John Lee, Graeme Malcolm, and Steven Crossley (Audible Studios)10. The Lincoln Highway by Amor Towles, narrated by Edoardo Ballerini, Marin Ireland and Dion Graham (Penguin Audio)