1 of 3Kyle Larson celebrates in victory lane after winning a NASCAR Cup Series auto race at Kansas Speedway in Kansas City, Kan., Sunday, Oct. 24, 2021. (AP Photo/Colin E. Braley)1 of 3Kyle Larson celebrates in victory lane after winning a NASCAR Cup Series auto race at Kansas Speedway in Kansas City, Kan., Sunday, Oct. 24, 2021. (AP Photo/Colin E. Braley)All Times Eastern NASCAR CUP SERIES Xfinity 500Site: Martinsville, Virginia.Schedule: Sunday, race, 2 p.m.Track: Martinsville Speedway.Race distance: 500 laps, 263 miles. Last year: Chase Elliott won after starting eighth.Last race: Kyle Larson won his series-best ninth race of the season in Kansas City.Fast facts: This race will determine the four drivers eligible for the championship in the season finale. ... Larson now has two three-race winning streaks this season. He’s the first to do that since Dale Earnhardt in 1987. ... Larson leads Elliott, the defending series champion, by 74 points and Denny Hamlin by 76 with two races remaining. ... Larson has led 2,397 laps, or 998 more than No. 2 Hamlin. ... Hamlin is the only driver that’s been running at the finish of all 34 races. ... Hamlin leads active drivers with five wins on the 0.526-mile oval. Martin Truex Jr. has won three and Brad Keselowski, Kyle Busch and Kurt Busch have won twice.Next race: Nov. 7, Avondale, Arizona.Online: http://www.nascar.comADVERTISEMENTNASCAR XFINITY SERIES Dead on Tools 250Site: Martinsville, Virginia.Schedule: Saturday, race, 6 p.m.Track: Martinsville Speedway.Race distance: 250 laps, 131.5 miles.Last year: Virginia native Harrison Burton won after starting 10th. Last race: At Kansas, rookie Ty Gibbs grabbed his fourth victory of the season. Fast facts: This race will determine the four drivers eligible for the series championship in the season finale. ... Austin Cindric and A.J. Allmendinger are tied in points with Justin Allgaier 38 points back and Daniel Hemric 40 behind. Justin Haley is 47 back. ... Hemric leads all drivers with 29 lead-lap finishes in 31 races. Next race: Nov. 6, Avondale, Arizona.Online: http://www.nascar.comNASCAR TRUCK SERIESUnited Rentals 200Site: Martinsville, Virginia.Schedule: Saturday, race, 1 p.m.Track: Martinsville Speedway.Race distance: 200 laps, 105.2 miles.Last year: Grant Enfinger won after starting eighth.Last race: At Talladega, Tate Fogelman won for the first time in 46 career starts.Fast facts: This race will determine the four drivers eligible for the series championship in the season finale. ... John Hunter Nemechek was the only one of eight championship contenders to finish in the top 10 as many of the others were caught up in accidents. ... Nemechek leads Ben Rhodes by a single point in the standings with three-time champion Matt Crafton 26 points back.Next race: Nov. 5, Avondale, Arizona.Online: http://www.nascar.comFORMULA ONE Last race: Max Verstappen outran seven-time series champion Lewis Hamilton in Texas and claimed his series-high eighth victory of the year.ADVERTISEMENTNext race: Nov. 7, Mexico City.Online: http://www.formula1.comINDYCAR Last race: Colton Herta won the season finale at Long Beach, California, as Alex Palou wrapped up the series championship. Next race: Feb. 27, St. Petersburg, Florida. Online: http://www.nhra.comWORLD OF OUTLAWS Next events: Oct. 29, Lawton, Oklahoma; Oct. 30, Mesquite, TexasOnline: http://worldofoutlaws.com/sprintcars___ More AP auto racing: https://apnews.com/hub/auto-racing and https://twitter.com/AP_Sports