SUNRISE, Fla. (AP) — The Florida Panthers became the 14th team in NHL history to start 7-0-0 by beating the Boston Bruins 4-1 on Wednesday night — with coach Joel Quenneville on the bench a day after he was named in a report about the Chicago Blackhawks improperly handling sexual assault claims.Sergei Bobrovsky made 29 saves for the Panthers, and Eetu Luostarinen scored the go-ahead goal. Anthony Duclair and Mason Marchment also scored, and Owen Tippett added an empty-net goal. Sam Reinhart and Gustav Forsling each had two assists. Charlie Coyle scored for the Bruins, and Linus Ullmark made 23 saves in his third consecutive start.Quenneville is scheduled to meet with NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman on Thursday about the report, which detailed an investigation into how the 2010 Chicago Blackhawks — the team Quenneville coached to the Stanley Cup — did not promptly and properly handle sexual assault claims a player made against an assistant coach.ADVERTISEMENTMAPLE LEAFS 3, BLACKHAWKS 2, OTCHICAGO (AP) — William Nylander scored in overtime to lift Toronto over Chicago. The Leafs snapped a four-game losing streak with the victory, and extended the Blackhawks’ record to 0-6-1 since the start of the season.John Tavares and David Kampf also scored for Toronto, and Jack Campbell stopped 25 shots. Chicago got 36 saves from Kevin Lankinen, and goals from Kirby Dach and Alex DeBrincat.Nylander broke in on a 2-on-0 and snapped a wrist shot past Lankinen in in OT.The Maple Leafs outplayed Chicago as the game went on, but the Blackhawks ended one streak early, taking the lead for the first time this season when Dach beat Campbell with a power-play wrist shot over the glove side 5:44 in.The Blackhawks had been tied or trailed for more than six games at that point, the longest such streak in the NHL since 1979-80.RED WINGS 3, CAPITALS 2, OTWASHINGTON (AP) — Robby Fabbri tied it early in the third period, captain Dylan Larkin scored in overtime and Detroit came back to beat Washington.Larkin beat Vitek Vanecek 1:37 into OT. Adam Erne started the comeback with a goal in the second, and Thomas Greiss made 26 saves for the Red Wings.Alex Ovechkin scored his eighth goal of the season and Evgeny Kuznetsov his fifth to stake Washington to a 2-0 lead. Ovechkin’s goal was the 738th of his career, putting him three back of Brett Hull for fourth on the NHL career list. Aside from those two power-play goals, the Capitals looked out of sorts against a less talented opponent and paid the price for a few defensive zone blunders and bad rebounds.GOLDEN KNIGHTS 3, STARS 2, OTDALLAS (AP) — Evgenii Dadonov scored in overtime to give Las Vegas a comeback victory Dallas. Shea Theodore scored the first goal for Vegas, and Jonathan Marchessault tied the game with a shot from the left faceoff dot with a minute left in the third. Laurent Brossoit made his first start for the Golden Knights and stopped 32 shots. For Dallas, Luke Glendening and Alexander Radulov scored, and Anton Khudobin had 18 saves. Vegas had a season-low 21 shots on goal. FLYERS 5, OILERS 3EDMONTON, Alberta (AP) — Cam Atkinson scored a pair of goals as Philadelphia prevailed in a slugfest over Edmonton. Claude Giroux, Nate Thompson and Sean Couturier also scored for the Flyers, and Carter Hart had 34 saves. Tyson Barrie, Connor McDavid and Zach Hyman scored for the Oilers in their first loss of the season, and Mikko Koskinen had 29 saves. The first period ended in a flurry of action, as the Oilers tied it on the power play with 18 seconds left and Philadelphia responded with less than a second left.