FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — Persuading people to roll up their sleeves again to get a COVID-19 booster will play a crucial role in ultimately defeating the coronavirus, Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said Thursday.“Boosters are now the most critical thing, aside from getting more people vaccinated,” the Democratic governor said at a news conference.But the Bluegrass State will have some ground to make up in its vaccination numbers.Some of the COVID-19 vaccine data for Kentucky was counted twice in the federal vaccine database, Beshear said. An estimated 431,100 total vaccine doses will be removed from the federal database for Kentucky, including about 252,500 first doses, he said. As a result, the percentage of Kentuckians who have received at least a first dose will drop to 56% or 57%, down from 62%.The recalculation “hurts a little bit,” Beshear said. But he added: “If we’re going to get everybody vaccinated, protect everybody, we really have to have the most accurate count of who is and who isn’t.”ADVERTISEMENTThe governor continued to stress the importance of booster shots, saying: “It will keep your immunity further up, and it will help us defeat COVID once and for all.”People ages 65 and older should get a booster, he said. Also eligible are people living in long-term settings, those with underlying health conditions and those exposed to a lot of other people through work, the governor said. It also applies to recipients of the single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine, with a booster recommended for them at least two months after the vaccination.Beshear sounded upbeat about the prospects of getting people to return for booster shots.“The population that’s left that is unvaccinated is harder to reach or harder to convince,” he said. “But everybody out there that has gotten their vaccines, you got it because you wanted protection. And we need you to get the booster when it’s time and when you qualify to keep that protection.”Beshear predicted that booster shots eventually will become widespread. Meanwhile, Kentucky’s favorable trends have continued in the fight against the virus, with declining COVID-19 hospitalizations, admissions to intensive care units and ventilator use, he said.“There’s a chance that in two to three weeks, we could be at a really good place,” he said.But he urged Kentuckians to “continue to do the work necessary to get in a safer place.” Besides vaccinations and boosters, the governor has urged people to wear masks when indoors in public.On Thursday, the state reported 1,711 new coronavirus cases and 33 more virus-related deaths, including the loss of a Kentuckian who was only 25 years old, Beshear said. The rate of Kentucky residents testing positive for the virus dropped to 5.17%, he said. The governor spoke at length about the overcount of vaccinations in Kentucky.ADVERTISEMENTSome vaccine data was counted twice because data from one pharmacy chain — Kroger — was reported both through the Kentucky immunization registry and directly to the CDC through the Federal Pharmacy Vaccine Program, Beshear said.Removing the duplicate doses will lower the total number of Kentuckians with at least one dose of vaccine from about 2.78 million to 2.53 million, he said.“This was not intentional by anyone,” the governor said. “Kroger has been a great partner with us in (COVID-19) testing and in vaccinations, and we do not blame anyone for this.”___Follow more of AP’s pandemic coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemic