Nonfiction 1. The Storyteller by Dave Grohl, narrated by the author (HarperAudio)2. Midnight in Washington by Adam Schiff, narrated by the author (Random House Audio) 3. Troy by Stephen Fry, narrated by the author (Chronicle Books) 4. The High 5 Habit by Mel Robbins, narrated by the author (Mel Robbins Productions, Inc.)5. Greenlights by Matthew McConaughey, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)6. Atomic Habits by James Clear, narrated by the author (Penguin Audio)7. The Daily Laws by Robert Greene, narrated by Fred Sanders and the author (Penguin Audio)8. Feeding the Soul (Because It’s My Business) by Tabitha Brown, narrated by the author (HarperAudio) 9. Peril by Bob Woodward and Robert Costa, narrated by Robert Petkoff (Simon & Schuster Audio)10. The Boys by Ron Howard and Clint Howard, narrated by the authors and Bryce Dallas Howard (HarperAudio) ADVERTISEMENTFiction1. State of Terror by Louise Penny and Hillary Rodham Clinton, narrated by Joan Allen (Simon & Schuster/St. Martin’s Press)2. Apples Never Fall by Liane Moriarty, narrated by Caroline Lee (Macmillan Audio)EntertainmentReview: Princess Diana gets an abstract and arty ghost storyNatalie Wood was assaulted by Kirk Douglas, sister allegesAmerican Girl Dolls, Risk, sand make it to Toy Hall of Fame'Rust' film armorer says someone may have put bullet in gun3. Dune by Frank Herbert, narrated by Scott Brick, Orlagh Cassidy, Euan Morton, Simon Vance, and Ilyana Kadushin (Macmillan Audio)4. The Sandman by Neil Gaiman and Dirk Maggs, performed by Neil Gaiman, James McAvoy, Riz Ahmed, Kat Dennings, Taron Egerton, Samantha Morton, Bebe Neuwirth, Andy Serkis, Michael Sheen, and full cast (Audible Originals)5. The Sandman: Act II by Neil Gaiman and Dirk Maggs, performed by Neil Gaiman, James McAvoy, Michael Sheen, Andy Serkis, Emma Corrin, Brian Cox, Kat Dennings, John Lithgow, Jeffrey Wright, David Tennant, Rege-Jean Page, and Bill Nighy, and full cast (Audible Originals)6. The Keeper of Happy Endings by Barbara Davis, narrated by Robin Siegerman and Hope Newhouse (Brilliance Audio)7. Local Woman Missing by Mary Kubica, narrated by Brittany Pressley, Jennifer Jill Araya, Gary Tiedemann, and Jesse Vilinsky (Harlequin Audio)8. The Christmas Pig by J.K. Rowling, performed by Amaka Okafor, Rocco Padden, Gerran Howell, Tom Alexander, Rachel Atkins, Annette Badland, Karen Bartke, Nicholas Boulton, Saffron Coomber, Clare Corbett, Sandra Gayer, Gerard McDermott, Yasmin Mwanza, Jemima Penny, and Summer Rose (Audible Studios)9. The List by J. A. Konrath, narrated by Benjamin L. Darcie (Brilliance Audio)10. Don’t Look Now by Mary Burton, narrated by Hillary Huber, Alan Carlson, Kirt Graves, Heather Firth, Zara Eden, and Joyce Oben (Brilliance Audio)