SEATTLE (AP) — Brandon Tanev had two goals and Jordan Eberle added another to give the Seattle Kraken their first home win in franchise history, beating the Montreal Canadiens 5-1 on Tuesday night. Mike Hoffman scored for a second straight game for Montreal and Jake Allen had 21 saves, but it was an ugly start to the Canadiens’ West Coast trip. Montreal is last in the Eastern Conference with just two points in six games and being outscored 24-11. Eberle got Seattle started by scoring 62 seconds into the game with his first of the season.Yanni Gourde scored his first of the season as well, in the second period, and Ryan Donato scored the fifth for Seattle on a breakaway early in the third period. Philipp Grubauer made 23 saves in Seattle’s most complete performance of season. Seattle’s five goals on Tuesday were a season high and came on just 26 shots. Tanev is the Kraken’s goal-scoring leader with five in seven games. JETS 4, DUCKS 3ADVERTISEMENTANAHEIM, Calif. (AP) — Nikolaj Ehlers scored twice 19 seconds apart in the third period as Winnipeg rallied over Anaheim.The Jets trailed 3-2 late in the third period before Ehlers tied it with 1:20 remaining after a scramble following a faceoff deep in the offensive zone. He then scored the winner with 1:01 with a shot from the right faceoff circle.Ehlers also had an assist, while Andrew Copp had a goal and two assists.Evgeny Svechnikov also scored, and Connor Hellebuyck made 32 saves for the Jets, who have won three straight.Trevor Zegras and Sonny Milano had a goal and an assist, and Josh Manson also scored for Anaheim. John Gibson stopped 21 shots for the Ducks, who have dropped five of their last six.WILD 3, CANUCKS 2VANCOUVER, British Columbia (AP) — Minnesota’s Matt Dumba scored his first goal of the season midway through the third period to spoil Vancouver’s home opener.Mats Zuccarello and Jonas Brodin also scored for the Wild, and Cam Talbot made 22 saves. Alex Chiasson scored on a power play, and Bo Horvat added a goal for the Canucks, who had their two-game win streak halted. Thatcher Demko stopped 27 shots for Vancouver.Vancouver’s home opener was the first game with full capacity at Rogers Arena in 595 days. The last time was a 5-4 shootout win over the New York Islanders on March 10, 2020 — two days before the NHL was put on pause due to COVID-19.FLAMES 5, DEVILS 3NEWARK, N.J. (AP) — Andrew Mangiapane had two of Calgary’s four goals in the first period as the team extended its winning streak to four games with victory over New Jersey.Milan Lucic, Elias Lindholm and Matthew Tkachuk also scored for the Flames. Calgary backup goalie Dan Vladar made 27 saves. Pavel Zacha had two goals and Dawson Mercer also scored for the Devils.Nico Daws allowed three goals on seven shots in his second career start before being lifted in favor of Scott Wedgewood, who finished with 20 saves.The Flames have won all four games on their current road trip, which concludes with a matchup at Pittsburgh on Thursday. LIGHTNING 5, PENGUINS 1PITTSBURGH (AP) — Ondrej Palat and Ryan McDonagh scored 10 seconds apart in the second period and Tampa Bay picked up its first regulation victory of the season by beating Pittsburgh.Brayden Point’s backhand 31 seconds into the second gave the Lightning their first lead in regulation this season as Tampa Bay bounced back from a lopsided loss in Buffalo on Monday. NHLOttawa faces Vegas, aims to break home slideDallas faces Calgary on 4-game slideTampa Bay faces Toronto, looks for 4th straight victoryPredators play the Oilers on 4-game win streakMikhail Sergachev and Alex Killorn added third-period goals for Tampa Bay, and Andrei Vasilevskiy stopped 28 shots for the Lightning, who won in Pittsburgh for just the fourth time in their last 17 visits.Tuesday was the Penguins’ first regulation loss of the season. Jason Zucker scored in the third period to spoil Vasilevskiy’s bid for a shutout. Tristan Jarry made 26 saves for the Penguins. Pittsburgh spoiled the Lightning’s celebratory vibe two weeks ago, beating them 6-2 in the season-opener after Tampa Bay raised its 2021 Stanley Cup banner to the rafters. But the Lightning restored a bit of order Tuesday to their shaky start to the 2021-22 season, playing with an edge it has lacked early on. GOLDEN KNIGHTS 3, AVALANCHE 1DENVER (AP) — Reilly Smith scored a short-handed goal, Robin Lehner stopped 26 shots and injury-plagued Las Vegas snapped a four-game slide with win over Colorado.It was Smith’s seventh short-handed goal for Vegas.Chandler Stephenson also scored and Evgenii Dadonov added an empty-netter with 29.9 seconds left to seal the win in the matchup between two of the top teams in the West who haven’t exactly been playing at their best. Vegas has a valid reason — injuries to big names. But the Avalanche just hasn’t been able to hit its stride so far this season. They dropped to 1-2 at Ball Arena after finishing 22-4-2 in friendly confines a season ago, which was tied for the most wins.Cale Makar had the only goal for Colorado. Darcy Kuemper settled in after a rough start to make 26 saves. PREDATORS 3, SHARKS 1NASHVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — Juuse Saros made 28 saves to lead Nashville over San Jose. Matt Duchene, Filip Forsberg and Mikael Granlund scored for Nashville, winners of two straight. Timo Meier scored and James Reimer made 23 saves for the Sharks, which have lost two in a row following their season-opening four-game winning streak. Duchene scored the game’s first goal a little more than a minute into the opening period on a Nashville power play.